                       CROOK COUNTY COURT AGENDA
                               Wednesday, May 3, 2023 at 9:00 am

                   Crook County Annex l 320 NE Court St. l Prineville OR
   Members of the public and media are welcome to attend in person or via Zoom: Phone: 1-253-215-
   8782; Meeting ID: 954 2612 6858; Passcode: 178149




                                        PUBLIC COMMENT


                                        CONSENT AGENDA
   (Consent agenda items are routine matters - e.g. minutes, appropriations orders, contracts,
   agreements, completion of previously discussed matters and decisions requiring Court ratification
   which are not expected to generate discussion. Any member of the Court may request removal of an
   item for separate discussion or vote. All remaining items are approved in a single motion.)



 1. Approve Minutes
 2. Approve Amendment #4 to Inmate Health Care Contract with Dr. Doug Gruzd
 3. Approve Extension #2 to PSC with Christina Dellera-Storo for Pharmacy Inspections &
    Consulting
 4. Approve Amendment 1 to CMHP Agreement Services Subcontract with BestCare
 5. Approve IGA Establishing a Funding Mechanism for Costs Related to Services and Duties of
    an Assistant Watermaster for Crook County
 6. Approve Personnel Action Form for James Staniford
 7. Approve Order 2023-20 Appointments to the Compensation Committee
 8. Approve Contract Award to High Desert Aggregate and Paving
 9. Approve Personnel Action Form for Aaron Reinhart

                                            DISCUSSION

10. Crook County Library Awards: Librarian & Library Employees of the Year
   Requester: Sean Briscoe
11. Presentation regarding Enterprise Zone
   Requester: Kelsey Lucas
12. PUBLIC HEARING: Receive public testimony regarding whether to renew the Crook
    County/City of Prineville Enterprise Zone                                                          Page 1
13. Petition to Annex Property into the Parks & Rec District
   Requester: Eric Blaine
14. Award chip seal rock crush to Taylor Northwest LLC
    Requester: James Staniford
15. Request approval to expend $20,250 of Title III funds for the Oregon Living with Fire
    program, a contract which was previously approved by the County Court on 4/19/2023
    Requester: Christina Haron


                                          EXECUTIVE SESSION

16. ORS 192.660(2)(e) To conduct deliberations with persons you have designated to negotiate
    real property transactions.
17. ORS 192.660(2)(f) To consider information or records that are exempt from disclosure by law,
    including written advice from your attorney.
18. ORS 192.660(2)(d) To conduct deliberations with persons you have designated to carry on
    labor negotiations.
19. ORS 192.660(2)(f) To consider information or records that are exempt from disclosure by law,
    including written advice from your attorney.
20. ORS 192.660(2)(f) To consider information or records that are exempt from disclosure by law,
    including written advice from your attorney.
21. ORS 192.660(2)(h) Consulting with Counsel concerning the legal rights and duties of a public
    body with regard to current litigation or litigation likely to be filed

                                               DISCUSSION

22. Consider awarding contracts for health, dental, and life insurance benefits
23. Letter of Support - COPS SVPP Grant
    Requester: Seth Crawford


                                 CONTRACT ADMINISTRATOR UPDATE


                                     COURT MEMBER UPDATES


                                     NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER
    The Crook County Court is the governing body of Crook County, Oregon, and holds public meetings
    (generally on the first and third Wednesday of each month) to deliberate upon matters of County
    concern. As part of its efforts to keep the public apprised of its activities, the Crook County Court has
    published this PDF file. This files contains the material to be presented before the County Court for
    its next scheduled regular meeting.


    Please note that while County staff members make a dedicated effort to keep this file up to date,
    documents and content may be added, removed, or changed between when this file is posted online
    and when the County Court meeting is held. The material contained herein may be changed at any
    time, with or without notice.


    CROOK COUNTY MAKES NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING                                   Page 2
    ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, ACCURACY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
    PURPOSE, OR FOR ANY OTHER MATTER. THE COUNTY IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR
POSSIBLE ERRORS, OMMISSIONS, MISUSE, OR MISINTERPRETATION.


Please also note that this file does not contain any material scheduled to be discussed at an
executive session, or material the access to which may be restricted under the terms of Oregon law.


If you are interested in obtaining additional copies of any of the documents contained herein, they
may be obtained by completing a Crook County Public Records Request form. Request forms are
available on the County's website or at the County Administration office at 203 NE Court Street, in
Prineville.




Additional items may be discussed that arise too late to be included as a part of this notice. For
information about adding agenda items, please contact the County Administration office at 447-
6555. Assistance to handicapped individuals is provided with advance notice.




Contact: Seth Crawford (seth.crawford@co.crook.or.us (541) 447-6555) | Agenda published on 04/27/2023 at 10:01
                                                     AM




                                                                                                                 Page 3
                        CROOK COUNTY COURT MINUTES
                        OF APRIL 4, 2023 WORK SESSION
                                 Open Portion

Be It Remembered that the Crook County Court met in a regularly scheduled Work
Session on April 4, 2023, at 9:00 a.m. in the Administration Conference room located at
203 NE Court Street, Prineville, Oregon 97754.

Court Members Present: Judge Seth Crawford, Commissioner Jerry Brummer and
Commissioner Brian Barney
Absentees: None
Others Present in Person or Via WebEx: Legal Counsels Eric Blaine and John Eisler;
Administration Executive Assistant Sarah Puerner; Legal Assistant Lindsay Azevedo;
Assistant Finance Director Christina Haron; Senior Accountant Cheyenne Fullerton;
Payroll/Benefits Administrator Kathy Puckett; Clerk Cheryl Seely; Director Kim Barber;
Director Will VanVactor; Manager Kim Herber; Manager Brent Bybee; Assessor Jon
Soliz; Library Co-Managers Cindy York and Sean Briscoe; Sheriff John Gautney;
Commander Bill Elliott; Chief Administrative Deputy Stephanie Wilson; Manager Tim
Deboodt; Andy Parks; Mike Ervin; Joseph Elmore; Kelly Coffelt and Mike Warren.

                                   WORK SESSION

The meeting was called to order at 9:00 a.m.

Agenda Item #1, Public Comment: None

Agenda Item #2, Oregon Paid Sick Leave and Hartford Update re: FICA & Payroll
Reporting:
Requester: Christina Haron, Kim Barber, Kathy Puckett
Details: Payroll/Benefits Administrator Kathy Puckett attended the work session to
update the County Court regarding payroll taxes and payroll reporting for the Oregon
Paid Sick leave. Initial cost estimate without the payroll reporting and tax payments
made by Hartford was $52,036.90, with Hartford remitting tax payments and filing
payroll tax forms for us, the cost increased to $79,018.99. Most of the increase is the
taxes the County would be paying individually if we handled this reporting internally.
This arrangement is very similar to how the long-term disability tax payments and
payroll reporting are handled with that carrier.

Agenda Item #3, Legislative Tracker Update/Discuss Comment Submittal:
Requester: Will VanVactor
Details: Community Development Director Will VanVactor attended the work session to
discuss the Legislative Tracker update and comment submittal with the Court. Mr.
VanVactor is tracking a few bills and would like to submit comments. The interested
bills are House Bill 3197 regarding urban growth boundaries, House Bill 2487 regarding
wedding venues, and Senate bill 644 regarding ADUs.

Agenda Item #4, Update re: FEMA BiOp as Applies to Floodplain Regulations:
                                                                                             Page 4
Crook County Court Work Session
Minutes of April 4, 2023 Meeting                                                    Page 1
Requester: Will VanVactor
Details: Community Development Director Will VanVactor attended the work session to
discuss the FEMA BiOp as it applies to floodplain regulations. FEMA has issued this
BiOp as a result of litigation that started around 2016. If FEMA rules are adopted, this
could severely limit development in floodplain. Mr. VanVactor would like to be
proactive and is going to keep the Court updated as this progresses.

Agenda Item #5, Review Extension Amendment Proposal for Oregon Living With Fire
Program Agreement:
Requester: Eric Blaine
Details: Legal Counsel Eric Blaine attended the work session to discuss the extension
amendment proposal for Oregon Living With Fire program agreement. The Oregon
Living with Fire MOU has been in effect since July 2021 between Crook, Jefferson,
Klamath, and Deschutes Counties. The MOU is to outline the cooperation and mutual
assistance between the Counties for the National Cohesive Wildland Fire Strategy in
Central Oregon. The amendment extends the termination date from June 30, 2023 to
June 30, 2028.

Agenda Item #6, Discuss County Court Meeting Schedule:
Requester: Andy Parks
Details: Andy Parks attended the work session to discuss the County Court meeting
schedule. The County Court meetings have in the past been noticed with a template that
allowed noticing without specifics as to agenda items or discussion items. Upon review
of public meeting notice requirements, the County has updated the published notice
format. This change will require some adjustments to meeting agenda item deadlines. It
was also briefly discussed whether to turn video cameras on during the meetings as well
as the location for future meetings.

Agenda Item #7, Landfill DEQ Assurance Letter:
Requester: Christina Haron
Details: Assistant Finance Director Christina Haron attended the work session to
present a Landfill DEQ Assurance letter to the Court and ask for approval of said letter.
This letter acknowledges Crook County’s compliance with Oregon Department of
Environmental Quality and Federal Environmental Protection Agency regulations for
financial assurance of closure and post-closure care activities of the municipal solid
waste landfills operated by Crook County.

MOTION to authorize Judge Crawford to sign the letter to Pauly, Rogers and Co., on
behalf of Crook County regarding the landfill’s financial assurance to the Department of
Environmental Quality. Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

Public Comment:
Joseph Elmore asked who Andy Parks is and what his role is with the County. Mr.
Elmore did not understand why Mr. Parks was working with the Sheriff’s Office and why
he is contracted with the County. Mr. Elmore also mentioned that the pay difference is
way below grade for the Sheriff’s Office.

                                                                                             Page 5
Crook County Court Work Session
Minutes of April 4, 2023 Meeting                                                    Page 2
Sheriff John Gautney addressed the Court with a written statement that he read in
response to the comments that the Court made in a public meeting on March 17th.
Sheriff Gautney mentioned that what was said in the previous meeting was an insult to
the Sheriff’s Office and he wanted to voice his official complaint on this kind of behavior
from those he trusted.

At 9:55 a.m. the Court read into Executive Session under the following statutes: ORS
192.660(2)(f) To consider information or records that are exempt by law from public
inspection, ORS 192.660(2)(e) For the purpose of conducting deliberations with persons
designated by the governing body to negotiate real property transactions, and ORS
192.660(2)(h) Consulting with Counsel concerning the legal rights and duties of a public
body with regard to current litigation or litigation likely to be filed.

                                   EXECUTIVE SESSION

At the conclusion of the Executive Session, the County Court convened back into Open
Session, inviting members of the public into the meeting room.

MOTION to authorize the realtor of record to make the offer as discussed in the
Executive Session. Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

MOTION to authorize staff to correspond with the counter party as discussed in the
Executive Session. Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

MOTION to authorize staff to correspond with the counter party as discussed in the
Executive Session. Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

There being no further business before the Court, the meeting was adjourned at 11:25
a.m.

Respectfully submitted,

Sarah Puerner




                                                                                              Page 6
Crook County Court Work Session
Minutes of April 4, 2023 Meeting                                                     Page 3
                       CROOK COUNTY COURT MINUTES
                      OF APRIL 5, 2023 REGULAR MEETING
                                  Open Portion

Be It Remembered that the Crook County Court met in a Regular Court meeting on
April 5, 2023, at 9:00 a.m. in the County meeting room located at 320 NE Court Street,
Prineville, Oregon 97754.

Court Members Present: Judge Seth Crawford, Commissioner Jerry Brummer and
Commissioner Brian Barney
Absentees: None
Others Present in Person or Via WebEx: Legal Counsel John Eisler; Administration
Executive Assistant Sarah Puerner; Legal Assistant Lindsay Azevedo; Clerk Cheryl
Seely; Interim Road Master James Staniford; Fairgrounds Manager Casey Daly;
Assistant Finance Director Christina Haron; Budget Analyst Jamie Berger; Director Kim
Barber; HR Generalist Amy Albert; Chief Administrative Deputy Stephanie Wilson;
Commander Bill Elliott; Sheriff John Gautney; Manager Brent Bybee; Director Erika
Frickey; Corrections Sergeant Andrew Rasmussen; Library Co-Manager Cindy York;
Andy Parks; Manager Tim Deboodt and Assessor Jon Soliz.

                                     REGULAR SESSION

The meeting was called to order at 9:00 a.m.

Public Comment: None

Consent Agenda:
   1. Approve Minutes
   2. Approve IGA 173132-7
   3. Approve Order 2023-16 Adopting the Crook County Title VI Program Plan
   4. Fiscal Year 2022 Audit Governing Body Letter
   5. Health Department's Alyssa Colby Promotion
   6. Grade/Step Increase for James Bennett
   7. NEPA BLM Scoping Programmatic Riparian Restoration Letter
   8. Contract renewal for food handler permit certification
   9. Agreement for chip seal on Lynn Boulevard for City of Prineville
   10. Extension #4 to Goods & Services Contract
   11. Exit Interview Letter Approval

MOTION to approve the Consent Agenda as presented. Motion seconded. No
discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

Discussion item #12: Swearing in of Corrections Deputies - Emily Rawlins and Dana
Tuttle
Requester: The Sheriff’s Office
Details: Members from the Sheriff’s Office attended the regular session to witness
Sheriff John Gautney swear in Corrections Deputy Emily Rawlins and Corrections
                                                                                          Page 7
Crook County Court Regular Session
Minutes of April 5, 2023 Meeting                                                 Page 1
Deputy Dana Tuttle to the Crook County Sheriff’s Office. Sheriff Gautney called Emily
Rawlins and Dana Tuttle forward to receive their oaths of office and swearing in as the
newest County Corrections Deputies. Sheriff Gautney explained the challenge coin with
the words of honor, service, and justice and above all integrity, that is issued, not given,
to the Deputy at the time of swearing in, and explained that the coin will go with the
Deputy if he/she leaves the Sheriff’s Office in good standing, but not otherwise.

Discussion item #13: Read proclamation and declare April as National Child Abuse
Prevention Month
Requester: Terra Tyger
Details: Terra Tyger attended the session to request the Court to read a proclamation
and declare April as National Child Abuse Prevention Month. There were over 4,800
reports of child abuse and neglect in Central Oregon last year and the County has a
responsibility to help create healthy, safe, and nurturing experiences for children. Judge
Crawford read the Proclamation declaring April 2023 as Child Abuse Prevention Month.

MOTION to approve the proclamation declaring April as Child Abuse Prevention
Month. Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

Discussion item #14: Approve PacificSource CMHP Amendment
Requester: Rick Treleaven
Details: Rick Treleaven with BestCare attended the session to present a proposed
amendment to the County/PacificSource community mental health funding agreement.
PacificSource as the regional Coordinated Care Organization (CCO) has proposed an
amendment to replace the agreements exhibits G and H. Those exhibits were last
updated in February 2022. The amendment will alter the compensation rates for
covered services and was the product of considerable negotiations by tri-county
community mental health service providers.

MOTION to approve the 2022 amendment to participate in provider agreements
between PacificSource Community Solutions and Central Oregon Community Mental
Health Programs. Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

Discussion item #15: Central Oregon Pee Wee Rodeo Association
Requester: Kasey Every
Details: Kasey Every from the Central Oregon Pee Wee Rodeo Association attended the
session to request the County waive facility fees for the 2023 rodeo season. The
Association is very passionate about keeping rodeos in Central Oregon and is very
thankful to the Court for their continued support over the years.

MOTION to approve the Central Oregon Pee Wee Rodeo Association fee waiver for the
2023 rodeo season and award banquet. Motion seconded. No further discussion.
Motion carried 3-0.

Discussion item #16: Amendments to Kids Center and Family Resource Center MOUs
Requester: Kari Hathorn
Details: District Attorney Kari Hathorn attended the session to discuss amendments to
                                                                                                Page 8
Crook County Court Regular Session
Minutes of April 5, 2023 Meeting                                                       Page 2
the Kids Center and Family Resource Center MOUs. This is a continuation of ongoing
grant disbursement, and the new grant is due April 10th.

MOTION to approve amendment 2 to Crook County Parenting Today agreement.
Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

Discussion item #17: Addition of 1 FTE Operations Manager; Modification of 1 FTE
from DDA I/II to Assistant Chief DDA
Requester: Kari Hathorn
Details: District Attorney Kari Hathorn attended the session to discuss the addition of 1
FTE Operations Manager and modification of 1 FTE from DDA I/II to Assistant Chief
DDA. The workload within the District Attorney’s Office has increased significantly. It is
necessary to add 1 FTE for an Operations Manager to continue the services the District
Attorney's Office currently provides and to meet statutory obligations. The office needs
an experienced prosecutor with 5-10 years of experience to prosecute major cases,
including child abuse and complex felonies.

MOTION to approve the addition of 1 FTE Operations Manager and modification of 1
FTE from DDA I/II to Assistant Chief DDA in the District Attorney’s Office. Motion
seconded. No further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

Discussion item #18: Consider approving Goals and Objectives for Fiscal Year 2024
Requester: Andy Parks
Details: Andy Parks attended the session to request approval for the Goals and
Objectives for Fiscal Year 2024. Consideration and approval of the goals and work plans
will be instrumental in prioritizing the proposed budget for fiscal year 2024, as well as
subsequent budgets.

MOTION to approve Crook County Fiscal Year 2024 Goals and Objectives with the
removal of the draft watermark. Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion
carried 3-0.

Discussion item #19: Consider approving IT Strategic Roadmap
Requester: Andy Parks
Details: Andy Parks attended the session to request approval for the IT Strategic
Roadmap. The County Court approved the County working with VIE Consultants to
assess the current County IT operation and collaborating with all County departments to
create a strategic road map to guide County IT operations and investment.

MOTION to approve the document titled IT Strategic Roadmap for Crook County dated
March 2023. Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

Discussion item #20: Approval of Order 2023-19 for road name removal within the
Grand Ridge Subdivision. Removing the road name SE Paradise Lane
Requester: Brent Bybee
Details: Manager Brent Bybee attended the session to request approval of Order 2023-
19 for road name removal within the Grand Ridge Subdivision, removing the road name
                                                                                             Page 9
Crook County Court Regular Session
Minutes of April 5, 2023 Meeting                                                    Page 3
SE Paradise Lane. Interested parties were notified ahead of time and no comments were
received.

MOTION to approve Order 2023-19 in the matter of removing a private road name
located in Crook County. Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.

Discussion item #21: First Reading of Ordinance 338: An Ordinance Amending Title 9
of the Crook County Code, Adopting a New Chapter to Reduce Incidents of Truancy
from Crook County Public Schools
Details: Legal Counsel Eric Blaine presented the Court with Ordinance 338, an
Ordinance amending Title 9 of the Crook County Code, adopting a new chapter to
reduce incidents of truancy from Crook County Schools. The State has ceased its
Truancy Court program, allowing counties to draft their own. The enclosed ordinance
has been drafted for Crook County to create its own program. It has been vetted by the
DA’s Office, Crook County School District leadership, and Prineville’s Resource Officer.
The language is modeled after a similar ordinance from Malheur County. This will be
the first of two readings of the ordinance.

MOTION to read by title only. Motion seconded. No further discussion. Motion
carried 3-0.

Judge Crawford read Ordinance 338 by title only and a public hearing was opened. With
no comment, the public hearing was closed.

ADDITION: Discussion item #22: Approve Landfill Repair Quote
Details: This was a late addition to the agenda. The Landfill has a quote for repairs of a
total of $20,910.

MOTION to approve the Peterson Cat repair for $20,910. Motion seconded. No
further discussion. Motion carried 3-0.


There being no further business before the Court, the meeting was adjourned at
10:10 a.m.

Respectfully submitted,

 Sarah Puerner




                                                                                               Page 10
Crook County Court Regular Session
Minutes of April 5, 2023 Meeting                                                      Page 4
                                        AGENDA ITEM REQUEST




Date:
April 24, 2023

Meeting date desired:
May 5, 2023

Subject:
Amendment #4 to Inmate Health Care Contract with Dr. Doug Gruzd

Background and policy implications:
Increase in both the monthly payment and doctor visit amounts, no policy implications.

Budget/fiscal impacts:
Increases the payment amount within current budgeted amounts, no increase in fiscal
budget.

Requested by:
Stephanie Wilson

Presenters:
N/A – Consent Agenda

Legal review (only if requested):
Legal drafted the amendment.

Elected official sponsor (if applicable):
N/A




                                                                                         Page 11
Page 12
Page 13
Page 14
Page 15
                                        AGENDA ITEM REQUEST




Date:
April 20, 2023

Meeting date desired:
May 3, 2023

Subject:
Amendment 1 to CMHP Agreement Services Subcontract with BestCare.

Background and policy implications:
The County entered into a subcontract with BestCare in December 2019 to perform services
under the Oregon Health Plan as outlined in the County’s agreement with PacificSource. The
County’s subcontract with BestCare states that it is effective through the later of either (1)
12.31.20, or (2) the duration of the Pacificsource CMHP agreement, as it may be amended
from time to time.

We are anticipating a successor PacificSource agreement, and this amendment is to
memorialize that the subcontract is still in effect through the successor agreement.

Budget/fiscal impacts:
N/A

Requested by:
Eric Blaine, County Counsel
541-416-3919
Eric.Blaine@crookcountyor.gov

Presenters:
N/A – Consent Agenda

Legal review (only if requested):
Legal drafted the amendment.

Elected official sponsor (if applicable):
N/A
                                                                                                 Page 16
Page 17
                                        AGENDA ITEM REQUEST




Date:
April 20, 2023

Meeting date desired:
May 3, 2023

Subject:
IGA Establishing a Funding Mechanism for Costs Related to Services and Duties of an
Assistant Watermaster for Crook County.

Background and policy implications:
The County has funded the costs for the Crook County Assistant Watermaster since 2014.

Budget/fiscal impacts:
The County will pay $46,250 for FY 2023-24. There was no cost increase from last fiscal
year.

Requested by:
John Eisler, Assistant County Counsel
541.416.3919
John.Eisler@crookcountyor.gov

Presenters:
N/A – Consent Agenda

Legal review (only if requested):
Legal has reviewed.

Elected official sponsor (if applicable):
N/A




                                                                                          Page 18
IGA WRD 23 003 - Assistant Watermaster - Crook County




                          INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
                                          Agreement No: WRD 23 003
          This Agreement is between the State of Oregon acting by and through its Oregon Water Resources
          Department (''Agency'') and Crook County (''Local Government''), each a ''Party'' and, together, the ''Parties''.



 SECTION 1:                   AUTHORITY
          This Agreement is authorized by ORS 190.110 and ORS 540.045 and related Administrative rules.

 SECTION 2:                   PURPOSE
          The purpose of this Agreement is to establish a funding mechanism for the costs related to the services and
          duties of an Assistant Watermaster for Crook County pursuant to ORS 540.045. The related costs include but
          not limited to salary, benefits, and other payroll expenses (OPE), supplies, and IT Services.


 SECTION 3:                   EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION
          This Agreement is effective on July 01,2023 (''Effective Date''), and terminates on June 30, 2024, unless
          terminated earlier in accordance with Section 15.


 SECTION 4:                   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVES
    4.1      Agency's Authorized Representative is:

          Oregon Water Resources Department

          Jeremy Giffin
          Watermaster - District 11
          231 SW Scalehouse Loop, Suite 103
          Bend, OR 97701
          Phone: (541)306-4808
          Jeremy.T.Giffin@water.oregon.gov

    4.2      Local Government's Authorized Representative is:

          Christina Haron
          Crook County Finance Director
          200 NE Second Street
          Prineville, OR 97754
          Phone: (541)447-6554 ext: 168
          Christina.Haron@crookcountyor.gov
                                                                                                                         Page 19

    4.3      A Party may designate a new Authorized Representative by written notice to the other Party.

Version 2.0 - July 17, 2015
IGA WRD 23 003 - Assistant Watermaster - Crook County

 SECTION 5:                   RESPONSIBILITIES OF EACH PARTY
    5.1      Agency shall perform the work set forth on Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this
             reference.

    5.2      Local Government shall pay Agency as described in Section 6.

 SECTION 6:                   COMPENSATION AND PAYMENT TERMS
    6.1      The Agency shall bill Local Government a total amount of $46,250.00 for performance of this Agreement.
             Invoicing and payment details are specified in Exhibit A.

    6.2      The costs and allocation of payments for services provided under this agreement and comparable
             agreements between Agency, Deschutes, Crook, and Jefferson Counties are more fully described in
             separate agreements.

 SECTION 7:                   REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
          Local Government represents and warrants to Agency that:

    7.1      Local Government is a county duly organized and validly existing. Local Government has the power and
             authority to enter into and perform this Agreement;

    7.2      The making and performance by Local Government of this Agreement (a) have been duly authorized by
             Local Government, (b) do not and will not violate any provision of any applicable law, rule, regulation, or
             order of any court, regulatory commission, board, or other administrative agency or any provision of Local
             Government’s charter or other organizational document and (c) do not and will not result in the breach of,
             or constitute a default or require any consent under any other agreement or instrument to which Local
             Government is party or by which Local Government may be bound or affected. No authorization, consent,
             license, approval of, or filing or registration with or notification to any governmental body or regulatory or
             supervisory authority is required for the execution, delivery, or performance by Local Government of this
             Agreement, other than those that have already been obtained;

    7.3      This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Local Government and constitutes a legal,
             valid, and binding obligation of Local Government enforceable in accordance with its terms;

    7.4      Agency warrants and represents to Local Government that Agency has the skill and knowledge possessed
             by well-informed members of the industry, trade or profession most closely involved in providing the
             services under this Agreement, and Agency will apply that skill and knowledge with care and diligence to
             perform its obligations under this Agreement in a professional manner and in accordance with the highest
             standards prevalent in the related industry.




                                                                                                                         Page 20



Version 2.0 - July 17, 2015
IGA WRD 23 003 - Assistant Watermaster - Crook County


 SECTION 8:                   GOVERNING LAW, CONSENT TO JURISDICTION
          This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Oregon
          without regard to principles of conflicts of law. Any claim, action, suit or proceeding (collectively “Claim”)
          between Agency or any other agency or Agency of the State of Oregon, or both, and Local Government that
          arises from or relates to this Agreement shall be brought and conducted solely and exclusively within the
          Circuit Court of Marion County for the State of Oregon; provided, however, if a Claim must be brought in a
          federal forum, then it shall be brought and conducted solely and exclusively within the United States District
          Court for the District of Oregon. In no event shall this Section be construed as a waiver by the State of Oregon
          of any form of defense or immunity, whether sovereign immunity, governmental immunity, immunity based
          on the eleventh amendment to the Constitution of the United States or otherwise, to or from any Claim or
          from the jurisdiction of any court. LOCAL GOVERNMENT, BY EXECUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT, HEREBY
          CONSENTS TO THE IN PERSONAM JURISDICTION OF SAID COURTS.


 SECTION 9:                   CONTRIBUTION
    9.1      If any third party makes any claim or brings any action, suit or proceeding alleging a tort as now or
             hereafter defined in ORS 30.260 (a “Third Party Claim”) against a Party (the “Notified Party”) with respect
             to which the other Party (the “Other Party”) may have liability, the Notified Party shall promptly notify the
             Other Party in writing of the Third Party Claim and deliver to the Other Party, along with the written notice,
             a copy of the claim, process and all legal pleadings with respect to the Third Party Claim that have been
             received by the Notified Party. Each Party is entitled to participate in the defense of a Third Party Claim,
             and to defend a Third Party Claim with counsel of its own choosing. Receipt by the Other Party of the
             notice and copies required in this Section and a meaningful opportunity for the Other Party to participate in
             the investigation, defense, and settlement of the Third Party Claim with counsel of its own choosing are
             conditions precedent to the Other Party’s contribution obligation under this Section 9 with respect to the
             Third Party Claim.

    9.2      With respect to a Third Party Claim for which Agency is jointly liable with Local Government (or would be if
             joined in the Third Party Claim ), Agency shall contribute to the amount of expenses (including attorneys'
             fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred and paid or
             payable by Local Government in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of Agency on
             the one hand and of Local Government on the other hand in connection with the events that resulted in
             such expenses, judgments, fines or settlement amounts, as well as any other relevant equitable
             considerations. The relative fault of Agency on the one hand and of Local Government on the other hand
             shall be determined by reference to, among other things, the Parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to
             information and opportunity to correct or prevent the circumstances resulting in such expenses,
             judgments, fines, or settlement amounts. Agency’s contribution amount in any instance is capped to the
             same extent it would have been capped under Oregon law if the State had sole liability in the proceeding.


    9.3      With respect to a Third Party Claim for which Local Government is jointly liable with Agency (or would be if
             joined in the Third Party Claim), Local Government shall contribute to the amount of expenses (including
             attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred and
             paid or payable by Agency in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of Local
             Government on the one hand and of Agency on the other hand in connection with the events that resulted    Page 21
             in such expenses, judgments, fines or settlement amounts, as well as any other relevant equitable
             considerations. The relative fault of Local Government on the one hand and of Agency on the other hand
Version 2.0 - July 17, 2015
IGA WRD 23 003 - Assistant Watermaster - Crook County

            shall be determined by reference to, among other things, the Parties' relative intent, knowledge,
            access to information, and opportunity to correct or prevent the circumstances resulting in such expenses,
            judgments, fines, or settlement amounts. Local Government's contribution amount in any instance is
            capped to the same extent it would have been capped under Oregon law if it had sole liability in the
            proceeding.

 SECTION 10:                  LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEFAULT
        Local Government will be in default under this Agreement upon the occurrence of any of the following events:

    10.1 Local Government fails to perform as described in Exhibit A or pay Agency as described in Section 6 of this
         Agreement;

    10.2 Any representation, warranty or statement made by Local Government in this Agreement or in any
         documents or reports relied upon by Agency to measure the delivery of services, the expenditure of funds
         or the performance by Local Government is untrue in any material respect when made;

    10.3 Local Government (a) applies for or consents to the appointment of, or taking of possession by, a receiver,
         custodian, trustee, or liquidator of itself or all of its property, (b) admits in writing its inability, or is
         generally unable, to pay its debts as they become due, (c) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its
         creditors, (d) is adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, (e) commences a voluntary case under the Federal
         Bankruptcy Code (as now or hereafter in effect), (f) files a petition seeking to take advantage of any other
         law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, winding-up, or composition or adjustment of debts,
         (g) fails to controvert in a timely and appropriate manner, or acquiesces in writing to, any petition filed
         against it in an involuntary case under the Bankruptcy Code, or (h) takes any action for the purpose of
         effecting any of the foregoing; or

    10.4 A proceeding or case is commenced, without the application or consent of Local Government, in any court
         of competent jurisdiction, seeking (a) the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up, or the composition or
         readjustment of debts of Local Government, (b) the appointment of a trustee, receiver, custodian,
         liquidator, or the like of Local Government or of all or any substantial part of its assets, or (c) similar relief in
         respect to Local Government under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, winding-up,
         or composition or adjustment of debts, and such proceeding or case continues undismissed, or an order,
         judgment, or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing is entered and continues unstayed and in
         effect for a period of sixty consecutive days, or an order for relief against Local Government is entered in an
         involuntary case under the Federal Bankruptcy Code (as now or hereafter in effect).


 SECTION 11:                  AGENCY DEFAULT
        Agency will be in default under this Agreement if Agency fails to perform, observe, or discharge any of its
        covenants, agreements, or obligations under this Agreement.


 SECTION 12:                  REMEDIES
    12.1 In the event Agency is in default under Section 11, Local Government may, at its option, pursue any or all of
         the remedies available to it under this Agreement and at law or in equity, including, but not limited to (a)
         termination of this Agreement under Section15, (b) reducing or withholding payment for work or Work
                                                                                                                      Page 22
         Product that Agency has failed to deliver within any scheduled completion dates or has performed
         inadequately or defectively, (c) requiring Agency to perform, at Agency's expense, additional work
Version 2.0 - July 17, 2015
IGA WRD 23 003 - Assistant Watermaster - Crook County


          necessary to satisfy its performance obligations or meet performance standards under this Agreement, (d)
          initiation of an action or proceeding for damages, specific performance, or declaratory or injunctive relief,
          or (e) exercise of its right of recovery of overpayments under Section 13 of this Agreement or setoff, or
          both. These remedies are cumulative to the extent the remedies are not inconsistent, and Agency may
          pursue any remedy or remedies singly, collectively, successively or in any order whatsoever.

   12.2 In the event Local Government is in default under Section 10 and whether or not Agency elects to exercise
        its right to terminate this Agreement under Section 15.3.3, or in the event Local Government terminates
        this Agreement under Sections 15.2.1, 15.2.2, 15.2.3, or 15.2.5, Agency's sole monetary remedy will be (a)
        for work compensable at a stated rate, a claim for unpaid invoices for work completed and accepted by
        Local Government, for work completed and accepted by Local Government within any limits set forth in
        this Agreement but not yet invoiced, for authorized expenses incurred, and for interest within the limits of
        ORS 293.462, less any claims Local Government has Against Agency, and (b) for deliverable-based work, a
        claim for the sum designated for completing the deliverable multiplied by the percentage of work
        completed on the deliverable and accepted by Local Government, for authorized expenses incurred, and for
        interest within the limits of ORS 293.462, less previous amounts paid for the deliverable and any claims that
        Local Government has against Agency.


 SECTION 13:               RECOVERY OF OVERPAYMENTS
      If payments by Local Government under this Agreement, or any other agreement between Agency and Local
      Government, exceed the amount to which Agency is entitled, Local Government may, after notifying Agency in
      writing, withhold from payments due Agency under this Agreement, such amounts, over such periods of times,
      as are necessary to recover the amount of the overpayment.

 SECTION 14:               LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
      EXCEPT FOR LIABILITY ARISING UNDER OR RELATED TO SECTION 9, NEITHER PARTY WILL BE LIABLE FOR
      INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR OTHER INDIRECT DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS
      AGREEMENT, REGARDLESS OF WHETHER THE LIABILITY CLAIM IS BASED IN CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING
      NEGLIGENCE), STRICT LIABILITY, PRODUCT LIABILITY OR OTHERWISE. NEITHER PARTY WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY
      DAMAGES OF ANY SORT ARISING SOLELY FROM THE TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT IN ACCORDANCE
      WITH ITS TERMS.

 SECTION 15:               TERMINATION
   15.1   This Agreement may be terminated at any time by mutual written consent of the Parties.

   15.2   Local Government may terminate this Agreement as follows:

      15.2.1     Upon 30 days advance written notice to Agency;

      15.2.2     Immediately upon written notice to Agency, if Local Government fails to receive funding, or
                 appropriations, limitations, or other expenditure authority at levels sufficient in Local
                 Government's reasonable administrative discretion, to perform its obligations under this
                 Agreement;

                                                                                                                     Page 23
      15.2.3     Immediately upon written notice to Agency, if federal or state laws, rules, regulations, or
                 guidelines are modified or interpreted in such a way that Agency's performance under this
                 Agreement is prohibited, or Local Government is prohibited from paying for such performance
                 from the planned funding source;
IGA WRD 23 003 - Assistant Watermaster - Crook County

        15.2.4     Immediately upon written notice to Agency, if Local Government is in default under this Agreement
                   and such default remains uncured 15 days after written notice thereof to Agency; or

        15.2.5     As otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.

    15.3    Agency may terminate this Agreement as follows:

        15.3.1     Immediately upon written notice to Local Government, if Agency to receive funding, or
                   appropriations, limitations, or other expenditure authority at levels sufficient in Agency's
                   reasonable administrative discretion, to perform its obligations under this Agreement;

        15.3.2     Immediately upon written notice to Local Government, if federal or state laws, rules, regulations or
                   guidelines are modified or interpreted in such a way that Agency's performance under this
                   Agreement is prohibited, or Agency is prohibited from paying for such performance from the
                   planned funding source;

        15.3.3     Immediately upon written notice to Local Government, if Local Government is in default under this
                   Agreement and such default remains uncured 15 days after written notice thereof to Agency; or

        15.3.4     As otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement

    15.4 Upon receiving a notice of termination of this Agreement, Local Government will immediately cease all
         activities under this Agreement, unless Agency expressly directs otherwise in such notice. Upon
         termination, Local Government will deliver to Agency all documents, information, works-in-progress, Work
         Product, and other property that are or would be deliverables under the Agreement. And upon Agency's
         reasonable request, Local Government will surrender all documents, research or objects or other tangible
         things needed to complete the work that was to have been performed by Local Government under this
         Agreement.

 SECTION 16:                  NONAPPROPRIATION
        Local Government's obligation to pay any amounts and otherwise perform its duties under this Agreement is
        conditioned upon Agency receiving funding, appropriations, limitations, allotments, or other expenditure
        authority sufficient to allow Agency, in the exercise of its reasonable administrative discretion, to meet its
        obligations under this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement may be construed as permitting any violation of
        Article XI, section 7 of the Oregon Constitution or any other law limiting the activities, liabilities, or monetary
        obligations of Agency.

 SECTION 17:                  AMENDMENTS
        The terms of this Agreement may not be altered, modified, supplemented, or otherwise amended, except by
        written agreement of the Parties.

 SECTION 18:                  NOTICE
        Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, any notices to be given relating to this Agreement
        must be given in writing by facsimile, email, personal delivery, or postage prepaid mail, to a Party's Authorized
        Representative at the physical address, fax number or email address set forth in this Agreement, or to such
        other addresses as either Party may indicate pursuant to this Section 18. Any notice so addressed and mailedPage 24
        becomes effective five (5) days after mailing. Any notice given by personal delivery becomes effective when
Version 2.0 - July 17, 2015
IGA WRD 23 003 - Assistant Watermaster - Crook County

      actually delivered. Any notice given by email becomes effective upon the sender's receipt of confirmation
      generated by the recipient's email system that the notice has been received by the recipient's email system.
      Any notice given by facsimile becomes effective upon electronic confirmation of successful transmission to the
      designated fax number.

 SECTION 19:               SURVIVAL
      All rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement will cease upon termination of this Agreement,
      other than the rights and obligations arising under Sections 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, and 18 hereof and those rights and
      obligations that by their express terms survive termination of this Agreement; provided, however, that
      termination of this Agreement will not prejudice any rights or obligations accrued to the Parties under this
      Agreement prior to termination.

 SECTION 20:               SEVERABILITY
      The Parties agree that if any term or provision of this Agreement is declared by a court of competent
      jurisdiction to be illegal or in conflict with any law, the validity of the remaining terms and provisions will not
      be affected, and the rights and obligations of the Parties will be construed and enforced as if the Agreement
      did not contain the particular term or provision held to be invalid.

 SECTION 21:               COUNTERPARTS
      This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, all of which when taken together shall constitute
      one agreement, notwithstanding that all Parties are not signatories to the same counterpart. Each copy of the
      Agreement so executed constitutes an original.

 SECTION 22:               COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
      In connection with their activities under this Agreement, the Parties shall comply with all applicable federal,
      state, and local law.

 SECTION 23:               INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS
      The Parties agree and acknowledge that their relationship is that of independent contracting parties and that
      Local Government is not an officer, employee, or agent of the State of Oregon as those terms are used in ORS
      30.265 or otherwise.

 SECTION 24:               INTENDED BENEFICIARIES
      Agency and Local Government are the only parties to this Agreement and are the only parties entitled to
      enforce its terms. Nothing in this Agreement provides, is intended to provide, or may be construed to provide,
      any direct or indirect benefit or right to third persons unless such third persons are individually identified by
      name herein and expressly described as intended beneficiaries of this Agreement.

 SECTION 25:               FORCE MAJEURE
      Neither Party is responsible for any failure to perform or any delay in performance of any obligations under
      this Agreement caused by fire, civil unrest, labor unrest, natural causes, or war, which is beyond that Party'sPage 25
      reasonable control. Each Party shall, however, make all reasonable efforts to remove or eliminate such cause
      or delay in performance and shall, upon the cessation of the cause, diligently pursue
IGA WRD 23 003 - Assistant Watermaster - Crook County

        performance of its obligations under this Agreement Agency may terminate this Agreement upon written
        notice to Local Government after reasonably determining that the failure or delay will likely prevent successful
        performance of this Agreement.

 SECTION 26:                  ASSIGNMENT AND SUCESSORS IN INTEREST
        Local Government may not assign or transfer its interest in this Agreement without the prior written consent
        of Agency and any attempt by Local Government to assign or transfer its interest in this Agreement without
        such consent will be void and of no force or effect Agency's consent to Local Government's assignment or
        transfer of its interest in this Agreement will not relieve Local Government of any of its duties or obligations
        under this Agreement The provisions of this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
        Parties hereto, and their respective successors and permitted assigns.


 SECTION 27:                  SUBCONTRACTS
        Agency may, without written consent of the Local Government, enter into any subcontracts for any of the
        work required of under this Agreement Agency's right to any subcontract will not relieve Agency of any of its
        duties or obligations under this Agreement.

 SECTION 28:                  MERGER, WAIVER
        This Agreement and all exhibits and attachments, if any, constitute the entire agreement between the Parties
        on the subject matter hereof. There are no understandings, agreements, or representations, oral or written,
        not specified herein regarding this Agreement. No waiver or consent under this Agreement binds either Party
        unless in writing and signed by both Parties. Such waiver or consent, if made, is effective only in the specific
        instance and for the specific purpose given. EACH PARTY, BY SIGNATURE OF ITS AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE,
        HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT HAS READ THIS AGREEMENT, UNDERSTANDS IT, AND AGREES TO BE BOUND
        BY ITS TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

 SECTION 29:                  RECORDS MAINTENANCE AND ACCESS
        Local Government shall maintain all financial records relating to this Agreement in accordance with generally
        accepted accounting principles. In addition, Local Government shall maintain any other records, books,
        documents, papers, plans, records of shipments and payments and writings of Local Government, whether in
        paper, electronic or other form, that are pertinent to this Agreement in such a manner as to clearly document
        Local Government's performance. All financial records, other records, books, documents, papers, plans,
        records of shipments and payments and writings of Local Government, whether in paper, electronic or other
        form, that are pertinent to this Agreement, are collectively referred to as "Records." Local Government
        acknowledges and agrees that Agency and the Oregon Secretary of State's Office and the federal government
        and their duly authorized representatives will have access to all Records to perform examinations and audits
        and make excerpts and transcripts. Local Government shall retain and keep accessible all Records for a
        minimum of six (6) years, or such longer period as may be required by applicable law, following termination of
        this Agreement, or until the conclusion of any audit, controversy or litigation arising out of or related to this
        Agreement, whichever date is later. Subject to foregoing minimum records retention requirement, Local
        Government shall maintain Records in accordance with the records retention schedules set forth in OAR
        Chapter 166.
                                                                                                                        Page 26



Version 2.0 - July 17, 2015
IGA WRD 23 003 - Assistant Watermaster - Crook County


 SECTION 30:                  HEADINGS
        The headings and captions to sections of this Agreement have been inserted for identification and reference
        purposes only and may not be used to construe the meaning or to interpret this Agreement.

 SECTION 31:                  AGREEMENT DOCUMENTS
        This Agreement consists of the following documents, listed in descending order of precedence: this Agreement
        less all exhibits, attached Exhibit A (the Statement of Work).

 SECTION 32:                  SIGNATURES
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement as of the dates set forth below.

        STATE OF OREGON acting by and through its Oregon Water Resources Department


        Lisa Snyder - Administrator - ASD                                        Date

        Local Government - Crook County


        Name, Title                                                              Date




                                                                                                                      Page 27



Version 2.0 - July 17, 2015
IGA WRD 23 003 - Assistant Watermaster - Crook County



                                                EXHIBIT A
                                           STATEMENT OF WORK
                                                County: Crook County



    a. Payment for all work performed under this contract for FY 2023 - 2024 shall be subject to the
    provisions of ORS 293.462 and shall not exceed the maximum sum of $46,250.00, including any travel
    and other expense reimbursement.

    b. Agency will invoice Jefferson and Crook Counties separately for the Fiscal Year. Both parties
    acknowledge that other agreements may exist under the Deschutes Basin Assistant Watermaster
    program but are separate to this Agreement.

    c.   Crook County

    County shall fund Assistant Water Master Program for the Deschutes Basin. The Agency shall perform
    work that includes distribution of the public waters within the basin; measuring stream flow; canal
    gaging stations and reservoir gages in all four counties made part of this agreement. Other tasks include
    reviewing conditional use applications and commenting as appropriate. Assisting the public in questions
    and matter related to water resources of the basin including water right research; stream flows; points
    of diversion; water resource studies; water supply and groundwater data that includes well log research.




                                                                                                           Page 28



Version 2.0 - July 17, 2015
                                        AGENDA ITEM REQUEST




Date:
April 25, 2023

Meeting date desired:
May 3, 2023

Subject:
Promotion of James Staniford to Road Superintendent.

Background and policy implications:
Mr. Staniford was selected as the Road Superintendent during interviews.

Budget/fiscal impacts:
This is an open position, its in the budget.



Requested by:
Kim Barber, Human Resources Director


Presenters:
Kim Barber

Legal review (only if requested):
N/A



Elected official sponsor (if applicable):
IN/A




                                                                           Page 29
                                                        ✔
                                   ✔           ✔
Staniford, James                                        ✔                 ✔
                                                             ✔
                                                                              ✔
                                           ✔




         4/24/2023

       1376



                                                                 4/10's
                                  Road                        Road
                          Interim Road Master         Road Superintendent
                                  R5/8                           129/1
                               $36.94 hr                     $39.72 hr




                                                         ✔


              Interim Road Master - additional $224.48 per pay period




                                                                            Page 30
                                        AGENDA ITEM REQUEST




Date:
April 25, 2023

Meeting date desired:
May 3, 2023

Subject:
Order 2023-20 Appointment to the Compensation Committee

Background and policy implications:
The Compensation Committee is formed each year to consider recommendations
for the compensation of elected officials in Crook County.
 Budget/fiscal impacts:
N/A



Requested by:
Kim Barber - Human Resources Director


Presenters:
Kim Barber

Legal review (only if requested):
N/A



Elected official sponsor (if applicable):
IN/A




                                                                             Page 31
                  IN THE COUNTY COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON

                              FOR THE COUNTY OF CROOK


IN THE MATTER OF APPOINTMENT                               ORDER 2023- 20
TO THE CROOK COUNTY
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE FOR
ELECTED OFFICIALS


       WHEREAS, volunteers are essential to the operation of the county government; and

      WHEREAS, the Court has carefully considered the skills and talents of the applicants
and the needs of the boards which has a vacancy requiring appointments, and based upon
recommendation of Boards and Committees:

      NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby ORDERED that that the Crook County Court
makes the following appointments to the Crook County Compensation Committee:
  Appointee                         Term                             Oath required
  William R. Anderson               Expires 12.31.2023               No

  Darla Rhoden                      Expires 12.31.2023               No

  Liz Schuette                      Expires 12.31.2023               No




       DATED this 3rd day of May 2023.



_______
Seth Crawford             Jerry Brummer                    Brian Barney
County Judge              County Commissioner              County Commissioner



                                                                                             Page 32


PAGE 1 OF 1 – ORDER 2023-20
                              Agenda Item Request
Date:
April 19, 2023

Meeting date desired:
April 25, 2023, Work Session and May 3, 2023 Regular meeting

Subject:
Consider contract award to High Desert Aggregate and Paving in the amount of $68,700.
Scope of work includes Crack sealing, cut, patch and repair of sinking storm drains at five
locations in hangar area. Level and overlay asphalt over old, damaged chip sealed roadway.
(Airport rd.)

Background and policy implications:
The airport facilities plan includes regular asphalt maintenance. This project is included in
the plan and was recently bid. Two bids were received. Four companies were asked to bid
the project although because of the broad scope of three different types of asphalt work
only two companies responded. High Desert and Tri-County.

Budget/fiscal impacts:
This project is within the budgeted amount of $75,000.

Requested by:
Kelly Coffelt, Airport Manager

Presenters:
Kelly Coffelt, Airport Manager

Legal review (only if requested):
NA


Attachments
Bids




                                                                                                Page 33
                                                           TRI COUNTY PAVING
                                                                     PROPOSAL & CONTRACT                                                                            CCB# 189644, EST. 2010
                                                                                          PROJECT
       PROJECT NAME: Prineville Airport Asphalt Maintenance                                                                                             DATE: 4/5/2023
         SITE ADDRESS: 4585 Airport Way , Prineville                                                                                      REVISION # & DATE:


                                 CUSTOMER                                                                                                TRI COUNTY PAVING
OWNER/CONTRACTOR: Prineville Airport                                                                                  CONTACT: Nick Vernon
                CONTACT: Kelly Coffelt                                                                                  ADDRESS: PO Box 1621 Redmond, OR 97756
  MAILING ADDRESS:                                                                                                         PHONE: 541-280-4780
                                                                                                                           OFFICE: 541-526-5800
                     PHONE: 541-420-3789                                                                                           FAX: 541-647-6515
                     E-MAIL: kcoffelt@cityofprineville.com                                                                 E-MAIL: nvernon@tricountypaving.net
ALT. E-MAIL OR FAX:                                                                                                    WEB SITE: www.tricountypaving.net

          ITEM                                  DESCRIPTION                                   QUANTITY                   UNIT                UNIT $$                        TOTAL $$
                1                  removal of existing asphalt, base material                        1,693                    sf                $10.00                       $16,930.00
                                     installation as needed and preparation
                                     for asphalt patching; 4" of new
                                     compacted asphalt
                2                  crack seal material application to                               23,492                    lf                 $0.95                       $22,317.40
                                     cracks and new pave/patch joints


                                                                                                                                          Grand Total                       $39,247.40
                                                               INCLUSIONS/EXCLUSIONS/NOTES
*inclusions: mobilization, CSS-1 tack application, saw cuts as needed, cleaning/prep of cracks, joints and surfaces; traffic control as needed
*exclusions: testing, rock hammering, permits, sand blasting cracks, 6690-1 Spec
*materials: base material (3/4"-0 state spec), asphalt (level 2, 1/2 inch dense mix w/ PG 64-28 binder), crack seal (material meeting ASTM D-1190 spec),
*if scope is altered by owner/contractor more than 10%, TCP may review pricing and adjust accordingly
*please read the provided Consumer Protection Notice and Information Sheet as further details and instructions are listed regarding your project
*proposal valid thru 2023

                                                                            TERMS & CONDITIONS
This proposal is made by Tri County Paving, LLC ("Seller") to                                                     Prineville Airport                               ("Purchaser").
Seller agrees to furnish all labor and materials completed in accordance with these specifications. All material is guaranteed to be as specified and all work is to be completed in a
workmanlike manner according to standard practices. A limited one-year warranty on all materials and workmanship applies. Any alteration or deviation from the above specifications
involving additional cost or risk to Seller will be performed only upon execution of a written change order agreed to between Purchaser and Seller, which will include any additional costs,
compensation, charges and required extensions of time for performance over and above the estimate. Seller’s employees are fully covered by workers’ compensation insurance. Purchaser
agrees to pay Seller for materials, labor and equipment used or to be purchased under this contract, plus any charges for additional materials, labor and equipment covered under a written
change order. Payment is due upon Purchaser’s receipt of invoice. A late charge of 1.5% per month (18% per annum) may be charged on all past due accounts over 30 days. Seller may stop all
work hereunder if any account or other payable hereunder becomes 30 or more days past due and Seller shall not be responsible for any cost or delay arising from such discontinued work.
Notice is hereby provided to Purchaser that a lien may be filed for material, labor and/or equipment furnished by Seller. Any and all costs associated with the collection of monies due Seller
under this contract and/or written change orders will be the responsibility of Purchaser. Seller shall not be responsible for any loss or delay in performance arising from causes beyond the
control of Seller (including, but not limited to, delay in delivery of materials or goods, fire, flood, strike or other casualty or act of God) or as a result of Purchaser’s negligence or interference.
In the event the parties become involved in litigation or arbitration, the prevailing party shall be fully compensated for its reasonable costs arising thereunder, including attorneys’ fees and
experts’ fees. This contract shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter contained herein. All notices which may be required under this
contract shall be in writing and delivered by U.S. mail at the respective address listed above. This contract may be executed in one or more counterparts, which may be delivered by
facsimile or other electronic means, and each of which will be deemed an original. By signing below the Purchaser is acknowledging receipt of the Construction Protection Notice.


ACCEPTANCE OF PROPOSAL- The above prices, specifications and other terms and conditions contained herein are satisfactory and are hereby accepted by the parties.

                                                    PURCHASER                                                                                                   SELLER
                                                   Prineville Airport                                                                                    Tri County Paving, LLC
            SIGNATURE:                                                                                            SIGNATURE:                                      Nick Vernon
           PRINT NAME:                                                                                           PRINT NAME:                                    Nick Vernon
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Page 34
                 DATE:                                                                                                 TITLE:                                    Estimator
                                       Consumer Protection Notice
                                Actions to help make your project successful
                                              f:CPN 4-26-2011
                                              (ORS 701.330 (1)

   Oregon law requires contractors to provide the homeowner with this notice at the time of written contract, for work on a residential
   structure. This notice explains licensing , bond and insurance requirements, and steps that consumers can take to help protect their
                                                                 interests.

                                                       START OUT YOUR PROJECT RIGHT
  1. Make sure your contractor is properly licensed before you sign a contract. Visit www.oregon.gov/ccb, and click on the link, Check on a
  Contractor’s License, or call our offices at 503-378-4621. To be licensed in Oregon, contractors must take training and pass a test on business
  practices and law. Licens- ing is not a guarantee of the contractor’s work.
  • A license requires the contractor to maintain a surety bond and liability insurance -
  The CCB surety bond provides a limited amount of financial security if the contractor is ordered to pay damages in contract disputes. It is not
  intended to be a safety net for consumer damages.
  Consumers with large projects may wish to look into performance bonds. Liability insurance coverage provides for property damage and bodily
  injury caused by the contractor. It does not cover contract disputes, including poor workmanship.
  • If your contractor is not licensed - the CCB bond and dispute resolution services will not be available to you.
  2. What you should know about bids, contracts, and change orders:
  • Bids - Do not automatically accept the lowest bid - A low bid may make it necessary for the con- tractor to use lower quality materials and to cut
  corners in workmanship.
  • Contracts and Change Orders - Always get it in writing. Your contractor is required to provide a written contract if the contract price is
  more than $2000. The CCB recommends that all con-
  tracts be in writing.
  • Contracts should be as detailed as possible - Some items to include are materials and costs, permits, estimated start and completion dates,
  debris removal, and arbitration clauses. Make sure the contractor’s name, CCB number, and contact information is included in the contract.
  • Read and understand your contract before signing it - Don’t be pressured into signing your contract without taking the time needed to go
  through it. Make sure it includes enough details to avoid misunderstandings and to protect you and your property.
  3. Additional contract information you should know:
  • A Payment Schedule - should be included in the contract. Stick to the schedule and never pay in full for a project before the work is complete.
  • Special Note on Liens - Subcontractors and material suppliers that work on your project are often paid by the general contractor. If a general
  contractor fails to pay, the subcontractor may file a lien on your property. For information on construction liens, visit the CCB’s Consumer Help
  Page at www.oregon.gov/ccb, or contact an attorney.
  • Warranty on new residential construction - Contractors must make an offer of a warranty when constructing a new residential structure.
  Consumers may accept or refuse the warranty.
  4. If you should have a problem with your contractor - You can file a complaint with the CCB against a licensed contractor within
  one year of the substantial completion of work on your project. Contact the CCB office at 503-378-4621 for help.

  Visit the CCB website at for more information on having a successful project. www.oregon.gov/ccb




Contractor CCB# 189644
Tri County Paving, LLC
Jeff Curl ~ Member 1/1/2023


                                                                                                                                                         Page 35
                                                                                                  Tri County Paving, LLC
                                                                                             PO Box 1621, Redmond OR 97756
                                                                                                    ph. 541-526-5800
                                                                                                 www.tricountypaving.net

To Our Valued Customer,
      Thank you for the opportunity to provide you with a quote. Below is some information regarding
 our products and services and some instructions if you decide to use our company to complete your project.
                                                         General Information
           You will be contacted soon after our receiving your signed contract. We will inform you of the month
           and week the project will begin. You will also be contacted the Friday before the scheduled week
Scheduling
           to touch base and to tentatively schedule the day of arrival. If you have specific requests regarding
           the schedule and timing of your project, we will work with you in order to accommodate your request.
           You will be billed upon completion for the provided work and your invoice will be e-mailed unless
 Payment standard mail is requested. No pre-work deposit is necessary. We expect payment upon receipt of
           invoice. We do not accept credit cards.
              All of our products and services come with a one year limited warranty. If you are having issues with
Warranty
              any part of the work, we will respond quickly to resolve the issue.
                                                                  Paving Projects
              Most projects will include base material installation under the new asphalt. The base rock used is
              3/4"-0 commercial or state spec. The asphalt installed will be a Level 2, 1/2" dense mix with PG 64-28
 Products
              oil unless an alternative mix is specified. If shoulder material is included on your project, 3/4"-0
              commercial or state spec will be used.
              Base material (if applicable) will be installed to grade using either a grade tractor or large grader
              depending on the size and scope of your project. Compaction will be achieved through a combination
              of watering and rolling with a 5 or 7 ton roller and plate compactor. Asphalt will be installed to grade
Application using a 8' or 10' wide hard screed paving machine and a combination of shovels and rakes will be used
              to level areas and finish joints. Compaction will again be achieved using a 5 or 7 ton roller and plate
              compactor. If applicable, a large conveyor truck or road widener will be used to install shoulder
              material followed with watering and rolling to tighten the material to the edge of the new asphalt.
              Your project will be ribboned off to prevent traffic on the new asphalt. Please allow 48 hours before
              you start driving on the pavement. The new asphalt is in a continual state of curing and hardening so
Post Work during the first 2 years after application (in the warmer months), do not turn your tires while sitting
& Maintenance stationary. In other words, BE ROLLING WHEN TURNING. Inevitably, some scuffing and wear will occur,
              however, seal coating the pavement will hide these blemishes and provide a "like new" surface once again.
               We recommend seal coating the asphalt 2 years after installation to allow for curing prior to application.
                                                 Crack Sealing & Seal Coating Projects
          The crack seal product used meets ASTM D-1190 spec and it is a hot-applied liquid. It is a rubberized
          sealant that creates a positive seal and allows for the expansion and contraction of the joint or crack.
 Products The seal coat product used is Seal Right- Master Seal and it is an emulsified asphalt product. It contains
          60% solids and has a bulk density of 10 lbs/gallon. Seal coat is applied to slow pavement oxidation and
               wear from weather conditions. This particular product by Seal Right is used by multiple agencies in the region.
            We will clean all surfaces prior to doing the work. We use wire brooms and high powered blowers to
 Preparation
            clean the cracks and surface removing all dirt and debris.
            We normally apply crack seal material using the "shoe" method which leaves a narrow, slightly elevated
            band over the crack. The "shoe" method provides longer resistance to crack reflection as it leaves an
            extra amount of material over the crack. Future applications may be required as some cracks could re-
            open in 1 to 2 years following initial application. We do not crack seal minute hairline cracks nor do we
            crack seal the joint between concrete and asphalt. Unless prescribed otherwise, the seal coat is applied
Application
            by hand squeegee or with a squeegee machine called a "buggy". Both methods lay the material into a
            thin, even coat, filling voids and sealing the surface area. The material is hand-cut around edges, concrete
            and pavers to insure complete coverage. Once applied, it leaves a deep black color to asphalt and
            protects the surface from UV rays and water damage. We recommend resealing on average every 5
            years. It must be noted that seal coat does not completely hide the crack seal material's texture or color.
            Allow 1 hr after the application of crack seal before driving on it. You can expect the material to be
            slightly soft and pliable on warmer days after installation during the first season. After the seal coat
            has been applied you will need to allow 24 hrs minimum cure time. During this period avoid walking
            or driving on the surface. Also, all watering systems must be turned off during this cure time.                      Page 36
Post Work
            Tri County Paving will not warrant the work if irrigation comes in contact with the application during this 24hr
            window. During the first month after application, do not rotate the car tires while sitting stationary.
            Once again, BE ROLLING WHEN TURNING. If some scuffing does occur, it will disappear in time with
            continued use.
                                                           TRI COUNTY PAVING
                                                                     PROPOSAL & CONTRACT                                                                            CCB# 189644, EST. 2010
                                                                                          PROJECT
       PROJECT NAME: Prineville Airport Asphalt Maintenance                                                                                             DATE: 4/5/2023
          SITE ADDRESS: 4585 Airport Way , Prineville                                                                                     REVISION # & DATE:

                                 CUSTOMER                                                                                                TRI COUNTY PAVING
OWNER/CONTRACTOR: Prineville Airport                                                                                  CONTACT: Nick Vernon
                CONTACT: Kelly Coffelt                                                                                  ADDRESS: PO Box 1621 Redmond, OR 97756
  MAILING ADDRESS:                                                                                                         PHONE: 541-280-4780
                                                                                                                           OFFICE: 541-526-5800
                     PHONE: 541-420-3789                                                                                           FAX: 541-647-6515
                     E-MAIL: kcoffelt@cityofprineville.com                                                                 E-MAIL: nvernon@tricountypaving.net
ALT. E-MAIL OR FAX:                                                                                                    WEB SITE: www.tricountypaving.net

          ITEM                                  DESCRIPTION                                   QUANTITY                   UNIT                UNIT $$                        TOTAL $$
                1                  bump grinding for asphalt take off and ,                             1                    ls               $4,250.00                       $4,250.00
                                     asphalt landing , and cleaning the
                                     surface of the asphalt in preparation
                                     of asphalt overlay

                2                  patch the pot hole areas, tack remaining                          2,713                   sy                  $10.75                      $29,164.75
                                     asphalt surface, prelevel .5" of asphalt
                                     and install 1.5" of compacted asphalt
                                     as per existing foot print

                3                  crack seal material application to new                               1                     ls               $400.00                         $400.00
                                     pave/patch joints



                                                                                                                                          Grand Total                       $33,814.75
                                                               INCLUSIONS/EXCLUSIONS/NOTES
*inclusions: one mobilization, CSS-1 tack application, cleaning/prep of joints
*exclusions: prep work, saw cuts, prime coat, weed sterilants, testing, traffic control, paving risers, permits, striping
*materials: asphalt (level 2, 1/2 inch dense mix w/ PG 64-28 binder), crack seal (material meeting ASTM D-1190 spec)
*proposal based on plans dated:
*miscellaneous asphalt patching to be priced separately
*if scope is altered by owner more than 10%, TCP may review pricing and adjust accordingly
*proposal based on non-prevailing wage rates
*advertised bid date ~
*additional mobilizations ~ $925.00/each
*proposal valid thru 2023

                                                                            TERMS & CONDITIONS
This proposal is made by Tri County Paving, LLC ("Seller") to                                                     Prineville Airport                               ("Purchaser").
Seller agrees to furnish all labor and materials completed in accordance with these specifications. All material is guaranteed to be as specified and all work is to be completed in a
workmanlike manner according to standard practices. A limited one-year warranty on all materials and workmanship applies. Any alteration or deviation from the above specifications
involving additional cost or risk to Seller will be performed only upon execution of a written change order agreed to between Purchaser and Seller, which will include any additional costs,
compensation, charges and required extensions of time for performance over and above the estimate. Seller’s employees are fully covered by workers’ compensation insurance. Purchaser
agrees to pay Seller for materials, labor and equipment used or to be purchased under this contract, plus any charges for additional materials, labor and equipment covered under a written
change order. Payment is due upon Purchaser’s receipt of invoice. A late charge of 1.5% per month (18% per annum) may be charged on all past due accounts over 30 days. Seller may stop
all work hereunder if any account or other payable hereunder becomes 30 or more days past due and Seller shall not be responsible for any cost or delay arising from such discontinued work.
Notice is hereby provided to Purchaser that a lien may be filed for material, labor and/or equipment furnished by Seller. Any and all costs associated with the collection of monies due Seller
under this contract and/or written change orders will be the responsibility of Purchaser. Seller shall not be responsible for any loss or delay in performance arising from causes beyond the
control of Seller (including, but not limited to, delay in delivery of materials or goods, fire, flood, strike or other casualty or act of God) or as a result of Purchaser’s negligence or interference.
In the event the parties become involved in litigation or arbitration, the prevailing party shall be fully compensated for its reasonable costs arising thereunder, including attorneys’ fees and
experts’ fees. This contract shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter contained herein. All notices which may be required under this
contract shall be in writing and delivered by U.S. mail at the respective address listed above. This contract may be executed in one or more counterparts, which may be delivered by
facsimile or other electronic means, and each of which will be deemed an original. By signing below the Purchaser is acknowledging receipt of the Construction Protection Notice.


ACCEPTANCE OF PROPOSAL- The above prices, specifications and other terms and conditions contained herein are satisfactory and are hereby accepted by the parties.

                                                     PURCHASER                                                                                                  SELLER
                                                    Prineville Airport                                                                                   Tri County Paving, LLC
            SIGNATURE:                                                                                             SIGNATURE:                                     Nick Vernon
           PRINT NAME:                                                                                            PRINT NAME:                                    Nick Vernon
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Page 37
                 DATE:                                                                                                  TITLE:                                    Estimator
                                       Consumer Protection Notice
                                Actions to help make your project successful
                                              f:CPN 4-26-2011
                                              (ORS 701.330 (1)

   Oregon law requires contractors to provide the homeowner with this notice at the time of written contract, for work on a residential
   structure. This notice explains licensing , bond and insurance requirements, and steps that consumers can take to help protect their
                                                                 interests.

                                                       START OUT YOUR PROJECT RIGHT
  1. Make sure your contractor is properly licensed before you sign a contract. Visit www.oregon.gov/ccb, and click on the link, Check on a
  Contractor’s License, or call our offices at 503-378-4621. To be licensed in Oregon, contractors must take training and pass a test on business
  practices and law. Licens- ing is not a guarantee of the contractor’s work.
  • A license requires the contractor to maintain a surety bond and liability insurance -
  The CCB surety bond provides a limited amount of financial security if the contractor is ordered to pay damages in contract disputes. It is not
  intended to be a safety net for consumer damages.
  Consumers with large projects may wish to look into performance bonds. Liability insurance coverage provides for property damage and bodily
  injury caused by the contractor. It does not cover contract disputes, including poor workmanship.
  • If your contractor is not licensed - the CCB bond and dispute resolution services will not be available to you.
  2. What you should know about bids, contracts, and change orders:
  • Bids - Do not automatically accept the lowest bid - A low bid may make it necessary for the con- tractor to use lower quality materials and to cut
  corners in workmanship.
  • Contracts and Change Orders - Always get it in writing. Your contractor is required to provide a written contract if the contract price is
  more than $2000. The CCB recommends that all con-
  tracts be in writing.
  • Contracts should be as detailed as possible - Some items to include are materials and costs, permits, estimated start and completion dates,
  debris removal, and arbitration clauses. Make sure the contractor’s name, CCB number, and contact information is included in the contract.
  • Read and understand your contract before signing it - Don’t be pressured into signing your contract without taking the time needed to go
  through it. Make sure it includes enough details to avoid misunderstandings and to protect you and your property.
  3. Additional contract information you should know:
  • A Payment Schedule - should be included in the contract. Stick to the schedule and never pay in full for a project before the work is complete.
  • Special Note on Liens - Subcontractors and material suppliers that work on your project are often paid by the general contractor. If a general
  contractor fails to pay, the subcontractor may file a lien on your property. For information on construction liens, visit the CCB’s Consumer Help
  Page at www.oregon.gov/ccb, or contact an attorney.
  • Warranty on new residential construction - Contractors must make an offer of a warranty when constructing a new residential structure.
  Consumers may accept or refuse the warranty.
  4. If you should have a problem with your contractor - You can file a complaint with the CCB against a licensed contractor within
  one year of the substantial completion of work on your project. Contact the CCB office at 503-378-4621 for help.

  Visit the CCB website at for more information on having a successful project. www.oregon.gov/ccb




Contractor CCB# 189644
Tri County Paving, LLC
Jeff Curl ~ Member 1/1/2023


                                                                                                                                                         Page 38
                                                                                                  Tri County Paving, LLC
                                                                                             PO Box 1621, Redmond OR 97756
                                                                                                    ph. 541-526-5800
                                                                                                 www.tricountypaving.net

To Our Valued Customer,
      Thank you for the opportunity to provide you with a quote. Below is some information regarding
 our products and services and some instructions if you decide to use our company to complete your project.
                                                         General Information
           You will be contacted soon after our receiving your signed contract. We will inform you of the month
           and week the project will begin. You will also be contacted the Friday before the scheduled week
Scheduling
           to touch base and to tentatively schedule the day of arrival. If you have specific requests regarding
           the schedule and timing of your project, we will work with you in order to accommodate your request.
           You will be billed upon completion for the provided work and your invoice will be e-mailed unless
 Payment standard mail is requested. No pre-work deposit is necessary. We expect payment upon receipt of
           invoice. We do not accept credit cards.
              All of our products and services come with a one year limited warranty. If you are having issues with
Warranty
              any part of the work, we will respond quickly to resolve the issue.
                                                                  Paving Projects
              Most projects will include base material installation under the new asphalt. The base rock used is
              3/4"-0 commercial or state spec. The asphalt installed will be a Level 2, 1/2" dense mix with PG 64-28
 Products
              oil unless an alternative mix is specified. If shoulder material is included on your project, 3/4"-0
              commercial or state spec will be used.
              Base material (if applicable) will be installed to grade using either a grade tractor or large grader
              depending on the size and scope of your project. Compaction will be achieved through a combination
              of watering and rolling with a 5 or 7 ton roller and plate compactor. Asphalt will be installed to grade
Application using a 8' or 10' wide hard screed paving machine and a combination of shovels and rakes will be used
              to level areas and finish joints. Compaction will again be achieved using a 5 or 7 ton roller and plate
              compactor. If applicable, a large conveyor truck or road widener will be used to install shoulder
              material followed with watering and rolling to tighten the material to the edge of the new asphalt.
              Your project will be ribboned off to prevent traffic on the new asphalt. Please allow 48 hours before
              you start driving on the pavement. The new asphalt is in a continual state of curing and hardening so
Post Work during the first 2 years after application (in the warmer months), do not turn your tires while sitting
& Maintenance stationary. In other words, BE ROLLING WHEN TURNING. Inevitably, some scuffing and wear will occur,
              however, seal coating the pavement will hide these blemishes and provide a "like new" surface once again.
               We recommend seal coating the asphalt 2 years after installation to allow for curing prior to application.
                                                 Crack Sealing & Seal Coating Projects
          The crack seal product used meets ASTM D-1190 spec and it is a hot-applied liquid. It is a rubberized
          sealant that creates a positive seal and allows for the expansion and contraction of the joint or crack.
 Products The seal coat product used is Seal Right- Master Seal and it is an emulsified asphalt product. It contains
          60% solids and has a bulk density of 10 lbs/gallon. Seal coat is applied to slow pavement oxidation and
               wear from weather conditions. This particular product by Seal Right is used by multiple agencies in the region.
            We will clean all surfaces prior to doing the work. We use wire brooms and high powered blowers to
 Preparation
            clean the cracks and surface removing all dirt and debris.
            We normally apply crack seal material using the "shoe" method which leaves a narrow, slightly elevated
            band over the crack. The "shoe" method provides longer resistance to crack reflection as it leaves an
            extra amount of material over the crack. Future applications may be required as some cracks could re-
            open in 1 to 2 years following initial application. We do not crack seal minute hairline cracks nor do we
            crack seal the joint between concrete and asphalt. Unless prescribed otherwise, the seal coat is applied
Application
            by hand squeegee or with a squeegee machine called a "buggy". Both methods lay the material into a
            thin, even coat, filling voids and sealing the surface area. The material is hand-cut around edges, concrete
            and pavers to insure complete coverage. Once applied, it leaves a deep black color to asphalt and
            protects the surface from UV rays and water damage. We recommend resealing on average every 5
            years. It must be noted that seal coat does not completely hide the crack seal material's texture or color.
            Allow 1 hr after the application of crack seal before driving on it. You can expect the material to be
            slightly soft and pliable on warmer days after installation during the first season. After the seal coat
            has been applied you will need to allow 24 hrs minimum cure time. During this period avoid walking
            or driving on the surface. Also, all watering systems must be turned off during this cure time.                      Page 39
Post Work
            Tri County Paving will not warrant the work if irrigation comes in contact with the application during this 24hr
            window. During the first month after application, do not rotate the car tires while sitting stationary.
            Once again, BE ROLLING WHEN TURNING. If some scuffing does occur, it will disappear in time with
            continued use.
Page 40
                                        AGENDA ITEM REQUEST




Date:
April 26, 2023

Meeting date desired:
May 3, 2023

Subject:
Aaron Reinhart classification update.

Background and policy implications:
Mr. Reinhart will move from non-exempt to exempt classification.

Budget/fiscal impacts:
None



Requested by:
Kim Barber - Human Resources


Presenters:
Kim Barber

Legal review (only if requested):
N/A



Elected official sponsor (if applicable):
IIN/A




                                                                   Page 41
                                                ✔
                                ✔           ✔
Reinhart, Aaron                                                   ✔

                                                                      ✔
                                        ✔




                                                     4/10's
                             Landfill               Landfill
                             Mechanic           Interim Manager
                              120/10                 126/1
                            $31.73 hr               $33.88 hr




           Interim Landfill Manager




                                                                  Page 42
                 AGENDA ITEM REQUEST




Date:
April 24, 2023
Meeting date desired:
May 3, 2023
Subject:
Crook County Library Awards: Librarian & Library Employees of the Year and
OYEA! award for outstanding library service to teens.
Background and policy implications:
The Crook County Library has been awarded the Librarian & Library Employee of
the year award from the Oregon Library Association. In addition, the Crook
County Library's Teen librarian (Katie Fischer) was awarded the OYEA! Award for
outstanding library service for teens.
Budget/fiscal impacts:
N/A
Requested by:
Sean Briscoe (Assistant Library Director) 541-447-7978 / sbriscoe@crooklib.org
Presenters:
Sarah Beeler (Library Director) and/or Sean Briscoe (Assistant Library Director)
Legal review (only if requested):
N/A
Elected official sponsor (if applicable):
N/A




                                                                                   Page 43
                                           AGENDA ITEM REQUEST




   Date:
   April 25, 2023

   Meeting date desired:
   Wednesday, May 3, 2023

   Subject:
   Petition to annex property into the Parks and Recreation District.

    Background and policy implications:
    The County has received a petition to voluntarily add property into the boundaries of the
Parks and Rec District. The County’s first obligation is to schedule a public hearing on the
petition. The hearing must be scheduled no sooner than 20 days nor later than 50 days after the
petition is received. In this instance, that creates a date range of Thursday, May 11, to
Saturday, June 10.

   After the hearing date is set, our office will prepare a memo describing the operative legal
questions the County Court will be charged with considering.

   Budget/fiscal impacts:
   The County would not be subject to any meaningful budget impact.

   Requested by:
   Eric Blaine, County Counsel
   Eric.Blaine@CrookCountyOR.Gov
   541-416-3919

   Presenters:
   Eric Blaine, County Counsel

   Legal review (only if requested):
   Yes

   Elected official sponsor (if applicable):
   N/A
                                                                                                  Page 44
Page 45
Page 46
Page 47
Page 48
Page 49
Page 50
Page 51
Page 52
Page 53
Page 54
Page 55
Page 56
Page 57
Page 58
Page 59
Page 60
Page 61
Page 62
Page 63
Page 64
Page 65
Page 66
Page 67
Page 68
Page 69
Page 70
Page 71
Page 72
Page 73
Page 74
Page 75
Page 76
Page 77
                             Agenda Item Request
Date:
April 25, 2023

Meeting date desired:
May 3, 2023 - Court Session Discussion Item

Subject:
Request approval to expend $20,250 of Title III funds for the Oregon Living with Fire
Program, a contract which was previously approved by the County Court on 4/19/2023.

Background and policy implications:
This request is to support our community’s wildfire protection plan which is an acceptable
use of Title III funds. This approval will allow the county to begin the 45-day Public Comment
period approval of the expenditure of funds by the US Forest Service’s RAC Committee for
expenditure of Title III funds in accordance with P.L. 106-393 Secure Rural Schools and Self
Determination Act as required under Section 302 (5)(b) for the same reauthorized in 2014.

Budget/fiscal impacts:
This would allow the county to utilize $20,250 of Title III funds to pay the County’s
contribution to the OLWF program with Deschutes, Jefferson, and Klamath Counties.

Requested by:
Christina Haron, CPA       541-416-3808 christinaharon@co.crook.or.us

Presenters:
Christina Haron, CPA       Acting Finance Director

Legal review (only if requested):
County legal counsel has reviewed the OLWF contract, and it has been approved by the
County Court.

Elected official sponsor (if applicable):
NA




                                                                                                 Page 78
Memo:

To:            Seth Crawford, County Judge
               Brian Barney, County Commissioner
               Jerry Brummer, County Commissioner

From:          Christina Haron, CPA Acting Finance Director

Date:          May 3, 2023

RE:            Title III Funds of $20,250

Crook County works with Jefferson, Deschutes and Klamath Counties for the purpose of
providing operations for the Oregon Living with Fire (OLWF) program as stated in the contract
approved on April 19, 2023. This program is intended for the counties to cooperate and assist in
the areas of watershed restoration and community protection efforts for the purpose of
National Cohesive Wildland Fire Strategy in Central Oregon. Crook County is responsible for
27% of the minimum budget for operations of the OLWF which is determined annually by the
OLWF Steering Committee per the contract formula. This results in the county’s contribution
being $20,250 for the upcoming year, starting July 1st.

OLWF, previously the Central Oregon Cohesive Strategies Initiative (COCSI), was created to help
all Central Oregon communities work together toward reductions in wildfire risk, not only in the
short term, but also in the long term. Their three primary goals are to share best practices that
lead to advancements in fire adaptation, resilient landscape creation and maintenance, and
more integrated wildland fire response in Central Oregon. The plan highlights the counties
working together using “collaboration…to manage vegetation and fuels; protect homes,
communities, and other values at risk; manage human-caused ignitions; and safely, effectively,
and efficiently responding to wildfire.” Not only do their goals align with the requirements laid
out in Title III for community wildfire protection plans, but they collaborate with other wildfire
groups for Central Oregon.

Since this request is to support our community’s wildfire protection plan, we would like to
request the use of Title III funds to fulfill our contractual obligation.

Please let me know if you have any questions or would like additional information.




                                                                                                     Page 79
                             Agenda Item Request
Date:
April 26, 2023

Meeting date desired:
May 3, 2023 – this item will be addressed after executive session

Subject:
Consider awarding contracts for health, dental, and life insurance benefits

Background and policy implications:
The County’s benefits program includes health, dental, and life insurance. The County’s
agent of record, WHA solicited quotes from four vendors in the space and reviewed the
quotes with County staff and myself. Based on feedback received, WHA was requested to
solicit quotes for eighteen-month term from the two most competitive vendors to align the
policy period with the calendar year, consistent with federal reporting periods.

Budget/fiscal impacts:
The proposed fiscal year 2024 budget includes an increase of five percent.

Requested by:
Andy Parks

Presenters:
Andy Parks, Christina Haron, Kim Barber

Legal review (only if requested):
NA

Attachments
Quotes




                                                                                            Page 80
                                                                                                        Crook County
                                                                                 2023 Life/AD&D Recap - Revised Offers
                                                                                                            July 1, 2023

                                                                                                      Life and AD&D
                                                     United Heritage                    United Heritage
                                                                                                                                  Hartford               Hartford               Hartford             Hartford
                                                          Current                             Renewal

Contribution                                              100%                                100%                                 100%                   100%                   100%                 100%
Participation Requirement:                                100%                                100%                                 100%                   100%                   100%                 100%
Benefit
            Life Benefit Amount                          $10,000                             $10,000                              $10,000                $50,000                $100,000      1x earnings to $150,000
           AD&D Benefit Amount                           $10,000                             $10,000                              $10,000                $50,000                $100,000      1x earnings to $150,000
MONTHLY RATES PER $1,000
Life:                                                     $0.170                              $0.170                              $0.100                  $0.100                $0.100                $0.100
AD&D:                                                     $0.040                              $0.040                              $0.020                  $0.020                $0.020                $0.020
Total:                                                    $0.210                              $0.210                              $0.120                  $0.120                $0.120                $0.120
Volume Assumption                                      $1,999,000                          $1,999,000                        $1,999,000                $9,995,000             $19,990,000          $13,102,500
Assumed # of Eligible Employees:                           207                                  207                                 207                    207                    207                  207
Monthly Life/AD&D Premium                                $419.79                             $419.79                            $239.88                 $1,199.40               $2,398.80           $1,572.30
Annual Life/AD&D Premium                                $5,037.48                           $5,037.48                          $2,878.56               $14,392.80              $28,785.60          $18,867.60
                                                                                                                                2.5 year                 2.5 year                2.5 year            2.5 year
Rate Guarantee:                                                                               2 Year
                                                                                                                           1/1/26 Renewal            1/1/26 Renewal          1/1/26 Renewal      1/1/26 Renewal
 Difference in Monthly Premium from current rate                                              $0.00                            -$179.91                  $779.61                $1,979.01           $1,152.51
 Difference in Annual Premium from current rate                                               $0.00                           -$2,158.92                $9,355.32              $23,748.12          $13,830.12


                                                                             Voluntary Life
                                                     United Heritage                 United Heritage                                                   Hartford
                                                                                                                                  Hartford
                                                          Current                             Renewal                                                AD&D Included
                                                                                                                       Increments of $10,000     Increments of $10,000 not
                                             Increments of $10,000 to 5x          Increments of $10,000 to 5x
        Employee Life Benefit Amount                                                                                      not to exceed 5x        to exceed 5x earnings or
                                                   annual salary                        annual salary
                                                                                                                        earnings or $500,000             $500,000
                                                                                                               Increments of $5,000 to            Increments of $5,000 to
                                            Increments of $5,000 to 50% of      Increments of $5,000 to 50% of
         Spouse Life Benefit Amount                                                                            $250,000 not to exceed             $250,000 not to exceed
                                                      employee                            employee
                                                                                                                  50% of employee                    50% of employee
                                                                                                                           15 days-6 mo. $250       15 days-6 mo. $250
                                                   6 mos to 26 - $10,000             6 mos to 26 - $10,000
               Dependent Life                                                                                               6mo. - 26 $2,000         6mo. - 26 $2,000
                                                  15 days to 6 mos - $250           15 days to 6 mos - $250
                                                                                                                         increments to $10,000    increments to $10,000
                                                   Employee - $100,000               Employee - $100,000                 Employee - $100,000       Employee - $100,000
               Guarantee Issue                      Spouse - $30,000                  Spouse - $30,000                    Spouse - $30,000          Spouse - $30,000
                                                     Child - $10,000                   Child - $10,000                     Child - $10,000           Child - $10,000
MONTHLY EMPLOYEE RATES PER $1,000
                             Less than 29                 $0.07                               $0.07                                $0.07                  $0.10
                                    25-59                 $0.07                               $0.07                                $0.07                  $0.10
                                    30-34                 $0.07                               $0.07                                $0.07                  $0.10
                                    35-39                 $0.10                               $0.10                                $0.10                  $0.13
                                    40-44                 $0.16                               $0.16                                $0.16                  $0.19
                                    45-49                 $0.25                               $0.25                                $0.25                  $0.28
                                    50-54                 $0.50                               $0.50                                $0.50                  $0.53
                                    59-59                 $0.79                               $0.79                                $0.79                  $0.82
                                    60-64                 $0.93                               $0.93                                $0.93                  $0.96
                                    65-69                 $1.06                               $1.06                                $1.06                  $1.09
                                    70-74                 $1.57                               $1.57                                $1.57                  $1.60
                                      75+                 $3.79                               $3.79                                $3.79                  $3.82
                                                                                                                                                    $0.25 Per $1,000
                                                    $0.20 Per $1,000                   $0.20 Per $1,000                   $0.20 Per $1,000
                                  Child                                                                                                                with AD&D
                         AD&D All ages                     NA                                   NA                                  NA            $0.03 Included in rate

                                                                            This spreadsheet is for illustration purposes only.

                                                                                                                 Note:
   Hartford offering a True Open Enrollment at initial enrollment 7/1/23, employees can elect up to the Guaranteed Issue amount without Evidence Of Insurability, will                                                  Page 81
 grandfather all current coverage, and a Modified Open Enrollment 1/1/25, employees can elect 2 increments of $10,000 without Evidence Of Insurability, still subject to
                                                                            Guaranteed Issue.
                                                                      Crook County
                                          2023 Long Term Disability Recap - Revised Offer
                                                                            July 1, 2023

                                                   United Heritage                   United Heritage                                            Hartford
                                                                                                                        Hartford
                                                       Current                            Renewal                                                90 day
Contribution                                           100%                             100%                            100%                   100%
Participation Requirement:                             100%                             100%                            100%                   100%
Elimination Period:                                  180 days                         180 days                        180 days                90 days
Benefit as % of Monthly Earnings:                      60%                              60%                              60%                    60%
Maximum Monthly Benefit:                              $6,000                           $6,000                          $6,000                 $6,000
Maximum Benefit Duration:                             SSNRA                        ADEA 1 - SSNRA                  ADEA 1 - SSNRA          ADEA 1 - SSNRA
Own Occupation Duration                             24 Months                        24 months                       24 Months               24 Months
COST                                               Current Rate
Rate as % of Monthly Covered Payroll:                 0.290%                             0.290%                          0.200%                 0.245%
Monthly Payroll Assumption:                         $1,124,079                         $1,124,079                      $1,124,079             $1,124,079
Assumed # of Eligible Employees:                        207                                207                             207                    207
Total Monthly Cost:                                  $3,259.83                          $3,259.83                       $2,248.16              $2,753.99
Total Annual Cost:                                  $39,117.96                         $39,117.96                      $26,977.90             $33,047.93
                                                                                                                         2.5 year               2.5 year
Rate Guarantee                                                                            1 Year
                                                                                                                    1/1/26 Renewal          1/1/26 Renewal
 Difference in Monthly Premium from current rate                                           $0.00                       -$1,011.67              -$505.84
 Difference in Annual Premium from current rate                                            $0.00                      -$12,140.06             -$6,070.03

  Included Employee Assistance                     United Heritage                   United Heritage
                                                                                                                        Hartford                Hartford
            Program                                    Current                            Renewal
Telephonic Visits                                 24/7 - 365                   24/7 - 365                              24/7 - 365              24/7 - 365
                                             5 per calendar year          5 per calendar year
Face to Face Visits                      (additional 5 with LTD claim (additional 5 with LTD claim
                                                  approval)                    approval)
                                                                                                                 3 face-to-face per year 3 face-to-face per year
                                          Telephonic with CPA and      Telephonic with CPA and
Financial Resources
                                         Certified Financial Planners Certified Financial Planners                                                          Page 82
Legal Resources                             Telephonic, 30-minute               Telephonic, 30-minute

                                                           This Spreadsheet is for illustration purposes only.
                                                                                                       Crook County
                                                                                                 2023 Life/AD&D Recap
                                                                                                             July 1, 2023

                                                                                                       Life and AD&D
                                                     United Heritage                     United Heritage
                                                                                                                                   Hartford              USAble                Mutual of Omaha              Standard
                                                          Current                              Renewal

Contribution                                              100%                                 100%                                 100%                  100%                       100%                    100%
Participation Requirement:                                100%                                 100%                                 100%                  100%                       100%                    100%
Benefit
            Life Benefit Amount                          $10,000                              $10,000                              $10,000               $10,000                    $10,000                 $10,000
           AD&D Benefit Amount                           $10,000                              $10,000                              $10,000               $10,000                    $10,000                 $10,000
MONTHLY RATES PER $1,000
Life:                                                    $0.170                                $0.170                              $0.100                $0.150                     $0.130                   $0.128
AD&D:                                                    $0.040                                $0.040                              $0.020                $0.035                     $0.040                   $0.030
Total:                                                   $0.210                                $0.210                              $0.120                $0.185                     $0.170                   $0.158
Volume Assumption                                      $1,999,000                           $1,999,000                        $1,999,000               $1,999,000                 $1,999,000               $1,999,000
Assumed # of Eligible Employees:                           207                                   207                                 207                   207                        207                     207
Monthly Life/AD&D Premium                                $419.79                              $419.79                          $239.88                   $369.82                    $339.83                 $315.84
Annual Life/AD&D Premium                                $5,037.48                            $5,037.48                        $2,878.56                 $4,437.78                  $4,077.96               $3,790.10
Rate Guarantee:                                                                                2 Year                           3 Year                    3 Year                     2 Year                  2 Year
 Difference in Monthly Premium from current rate                                               $0.00                           $179.91                   $49.98                      $79.96                 $103.95
 Difference in Annual Premium from current rate                                                $0.00                          $2,158.92                  $599.70                    $959.52                $1,247.38
                                                                                                       Voluntary Life
                                                     United Heritage                     United Heritage
                                                                                                                                   Hartford              USAble                Mutual of Omaha              Standard
                                                          Current                              Renewal

                                                                                                                        Increments of $10,000    Increments of $10,000 not   Increments of $10,000
                                               Increments of $10,000 to 5x         Increments of $10,000 to 5x                                                                                     Increments of $10,000 to
        Employee Life Benefit Amount                                                                                       not to exceed 5x       to exceed 5x earnings or      not to exceed 5x
                                                     annual salary                       annual salary                                                                                                    $500,000
                                                                                                                         earnings or $500,000            $500,000             earnings or $500,000
                                                                                                                       Increments of $5,000 to    Increments of $5,000 to    Increments of $5,000 to
                                              Increments of $5,000 to 50% of     Increments of $5,000 to 50% of                                                                                      Increments of $5,000 to
         Spouse Life Benefit Amount                                                                                    $250,000 not to exceed     $250,000 not to exceed     $250,000 not to exceed
                                                        employee                           employee                                                                                                        $250,000
                                                                                                                          50% of employee            50% of employee            50% of employee
                                                                                                                          15 days-6 mo. $250        Birth - 6 mo. $1,000
                                                   6 mos to 26 - $10,000              6 mos to 26 - $10,000                                                                  Increments of $1,000 to Increments of $2,000 to
               Dependent Life                                                                                              6mo. - 26 $2,000          6mo. - 26 $2,000
                                                  15 days to 6 mos - $250            15 days to 6 mos - $250                                                                   $10,000, $2,000 min.         $10,000
                                                                                                                        increments to $10,000     increments to $10,000
                                                   Employee - $100,000                 Employee - $100,000              Employee - $100,000        Employee - $120,000        Employee - $100,000     Employee - $100,000
               Guarantee Issue                      Spouse - $30,000                    Spouse - $30,000                 Spouse - $30,000           Spouse - $30,000           Spouse - $30,000        Spouse - $30,000
                                                     Child - $10,000                     Child - $10,000                  Child - $10,000            Child - $10,000            Child - $10,000         Child - $10,000
MONTHLY EMPLOYEE RATES PER $1,000
                               Less than 29              $0.07                               $0.07                             $0.07                     $0.07                      $0.07                   $0.07
                                      25-59              $0.07                               $0.07                             $0.07                     $0.07                      $0.07                   $0.07
                                      30-34              $0.07                               $0.07                             $0.07                     $0.07                      $0.07                   $0.07
                                      35-39              $0.10                               $0.10                             $0.10                     $0.10                      $0.10                   $0.10
                                      40-44              $0.16                               $0.16                             $0.16                     $0.16                      $0.16                   $0.16
                                      45-49              $0.25                               $0.25                             $0.25                     $0.25                      $0.25                   $0.25
                                      50-54              $0.50                               $0.50                             $0.50                     $0.50                      $0.50                   $0.50
                                      59-59              $0.79                               $0.79                             $0.79                     $0.79                      $0.79                   $0.79
                                      60-64              $0.93                               $0.93                             $0.93                     $0.93                      $0.93                   $0.93
                                      65-69              $1.06                               $1.06                             $1.06                     $1.06                      $1.06                   $1.06
                                      70-74              $1.57                               $1.57                             $1.57                     $1.57                      $1.57                   $1.57
                                        75+              $3.79                               $3.79                             $3.79                     $3.79                      $3.79                   $3.79
                                     Child          $0.20 Per $1,000                    $0.20 Per $1,000                  $0.20 Per $1,000          $0.20 Per $1,000           $0.20 Per $1,000        $0.20 Per $1,000
                                                           NA                                  NA                                NA                        NA                       $0.04                   $0.03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 83
                            AD&D All ages
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Includes AD&D
                                                                             This Spreadsheet is for illustration purposes only.

              Declined to Quote                                                                                                                                                      Notes:
          Principal - due to police/fire
                                                                                               Crook County
                                                                                2023 Long Term Disability Recap
                                                                                                     July 1, 2023

                                                   United Heritage              United Heritage
                                                                                                                      Hartford             USAble          Mutual of Omaha       Standard
                                                       Current                       Renewal
Contribution                                           100%                        100%                              100%                   100%                100%               100%
Participation Requirement:                             100%                        100%                              100%                   100%                100%               100%
Elimination Period:                                  180 days                    180 days                          180 days               180 days            180 days           180 days
Benefit as % of Monthly Earnings:                       60%                         60%                               60%                    60%                 60%               60%
Maximum Monthly Benefit:                              $6,000                      $6,000                            $6,000                 $6,000              $6,000             $6,000
Maximum Benefit Duration:                             SSNRA                   ADEA 1 - SSNRA                    ADEA 1 - SSNRA             SSNRA           RBD to SSNRA       RBD to SSNRA
Own Occupation Duration                             24 Months                   24 Months                         24 months              36 Months           24 Months          24 Months
COST                                               Current Rate
Rate as % of Monthly Covered Payroll:                 0.290%                       0.290%                             0.200%               0.27%               0.210%            0.245%
Monthly Payroll Assumption:                         $1,124,079                    $1,124,079                        $1,124,079           $1,124,079          $1,124,079         $1,124,079
Assumed # of Eligible Employees:                        207                          207                                207                  207                 207               207
Total Monthly Cost:                                 $3,259.83                     $3,259.83                          $2,248.16            $3,035.01           $2,360.57         $2,753.99
Total Annual Cost:                                  $39,117.96                    $39,117.96                        $26,977.90           $36,420.17          $28,326.80         $33,047.93
Rate Guarantee                                                                      1 Year                            3 years              2 years             2 Years           2 Years
 Difference in Monthly Premium from current rate                                    $0.00                           $1,011.67            $2,697.79             $899.26           $505.84
 Difference in Annual Premium from current rate                                     $0.00                           $12,140.06           $32,373.48          $10,791.16         $6,070.03

  Included Employee Assistance                     United Heritage              United Heritage
                                                                                                                      Hartford             USAble          Mutual of Omaha       Standard
            Program                                    Current                       Renewal
Telephonic Visits                                 24/7 - 365                   24/7 - 365                           24/7 - 365           24/7 - 365           24/7 - 365        24/7 - 365
                                             5 per calendar year          5 per calendar year
Face to Face Visits                      (additional 5 with LTD claim (additional 5 with LTD claim
                                                  approval)                    approval)                                              4 face-to-face per                     3 face-to-face per
                                                                                                            3 face-to-face per year                         4 face-to-face
                                          Telephonic with CPA and      Telephonic with CPA and                                         issue, per year                        issue, per year
Financial Resources
                                         Certified Financial Planners Certified Financial Planners
Legal Resources                             Telephonic, 30-minute          Telephonic, 30-minute
                                                                     This Spreadsheet is for illustration purposes only.




                                                                                                                                                                                        Page 84
Page 85
                                                                                       Crook County
                                                  Plan Comparison - County, Road & Sheriff Combined -Revised 4-20-23
                                                                                            July 1, 2023
                                                                          Contribution based on 10% Employee Cost Share
                                                                                           Current Plans                                                                     PacificSource                             HealthNet                       Providence HDHP Option                  Providence HDHP Option                  Providence HDHP Option
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             $5000 HDHP                              $5000 HDHP                              $5000 HDHP
                                        PacificSource - $1500 Custom              PacificSource - $3000 Custom           PacificSource - $2000 HSA Custom                    $5000 HDHP                               $5000 HDHP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Open Advantage Premium                   Open Advantage Plus                    Open Advantage Choice
                                               $1500 Deductible                          $3000 Deductible                      $2000 Deductible HSA                      $5000 Deductible                          $5000 Deductible                       $5000 Deductible                        $5000 Deductible                        $5000 Deductible
Medical & Prescription Benefits                   In-Network                                In-Network                              In-Network                              In-Network                                In-Network                              In-Network                              In-Network                              In-Network
 Individual Deductible                              $1,500                                     $3,000                                 $2,000                                   $5,000                                    $5,000                                  $5,000                                  $5,000                                  $5,000
 Family Deductible                                  $3,000                                     $6,000                                 $4,000                                  $10,000                                   $10,000                                 $10,000                                 $10,000                                 $10,000
 Individual OOP Max                                 $3,500                                     $5,000                                 $4,000                                   $7,150                                    $7,350                                  $8,500                                  $8,500                                  $8,500
 Family OOP Max                                     $7,000                                    $10,000                                 $8,000                                  $14,300                                   $14,700                                 $17,000                                 $17,000                                 $17,000
 Preventative Office Visit                      Covered in Full                           Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                           Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                         Covered in Full
 Virtual Visit                                    Covered in Full                           Covered in Full                               20%                                Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                    $10 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $10 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $10 Copay, Ded. Waived
 Office Visit                              $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                    $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                               20%                        $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                    $35 Copay, Ded. Waived                   $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $25 Copay, Ded. Waived
 Specialist Office Visit                   $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                    $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                               20%                        $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                    $70 Copay, Ded. Waived                   $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $25 Copay, Ded. Waived
 Urgent Care Visit                         $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                    $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                               20%                        $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                    $50 Copay, Ded. Waived                   $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $25 Copay, Ded. Waived
 Maternity - Delivery and Postnatal    $250 per pregnancy, Ded. Waived           $250 per pregnancy, Ded. Waived                          20%                     $250 per pregnancy, Ded. Waived                          30%                       $250 per delivery, Ded. Waived                         20%                                     20%
 Maternity Hospital Stay                               20%                                       20%                                      20%                                     20%                                      30%                                      20%                                     20%                                     20%
 Hospital Services                                     20%                                       20%                                      20%                                     20%                                      30%                                      20%                                     20%                                     20%
 Outpatient Services                                   20%                                       20%                                      20%                                     20%                                      30%                                      20%                                   20%                                       20%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1st $500 covered in full, then Ded.
 Diagnostic Lab/X-Ray                         20%, Ded. Waived                          20%, Ded. Waived                                  20%                            20%, Ded. Waived                      $20 Copay, Ded. Waived                      20%, Ded. Waived                                                                20%, Ded. Waived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Then 20%
 CT, PET, MRI & MRA Lab                       20%, Ded. Waived                          20%, Ded. Waived                                  20%                            20%, Ded. Waived                         30%, Ded. Waived                         20%, Ded. Waived                               20%                                       20%
 Emergency Room Services                  $250 Copay, Ded. Waived                    $250 Copay, Ded. Waived                              20%                        $250 Copay, Ded. Waived              $250 Copay, then 30%, Ded. Waived            $250 Copay, Ded. Waived                   Ded. Then $250 Copay                    Ded. Then $250 Copay
 Ambulance Services (Ground)                        20%                                       20%                                        20%                                   20%                                      30%                                      20%                                     20%                                     20%
                                           $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                    $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                              20%                          $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                   $35 Copay, Ded. Waived                   $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $25 Copay, Ded. Waived
 Physical Therapy
                                            30 visits per calendar year               30 visits per calendar year            30 visits per calendar year              30 visits per calendar year               30 visits per calendar year              30 visits per calendar year             30 visits per calendar year             30 visits per calendar year
 Durable Medical Equipment                             20%                                       20%                                     20%                                      20%                                      30%                                   20%                                     20%                                     20%
 Allergy Injections                                    20%                                       20%                                     20%                                      20%                                      30%                             20%, Ded. Waived                        20%, Ded. Waived                        20%, Ded. Waived
Prescription                              30 Day              90 Day Mail           30 Day              90 Day Mail          90 Day            90 Day Mail           30 Day              90 Day Mail          30 Day              90 Day Mail          30 Day            90 Day                30 Day            90 Day                30 Day            90 Day
 Deductible                                            N/A                                       N/A                             Medical Deductible                               N/A                                      N/A                                   N/A                                     N/A                                     N/A
 Tier 1                                     $15                     $30               $15                     $30             20%                  20%                 $15                     $30              $10                   $20                $0                $0                    $0                $0                    $0                $0
 Tier 2                                     $45                     $90               $45                     $90             20%                  20%                 $45                     $90              $35                   $70               $10               $20                   $10               $20                   $10               $20
 Tier 3                                     $45                     $90               $45                     $90             20%                  20%                 $45                     $90              $60                  $120               $35               $70                   $35               $70                   $35               $70
 Tier 4                                     $45                     $90               $45                     $90             20%                  20%                 $45                     $90          20% to $250               NA                $45               $90                   $45               $90                   $45               $90
 Compounded                                         50%                                        50%                                       20%                                   50%                          10% to $150               NA                          NA                                      NA                                      NA
Alternative Care                          Acup., Chiro, Naturopath                   Acup., Chiro, Naturopath                Acup., Chiro, Naturopath                Acup., Chiro, Naturopath                   Acup., Chiro, Massage                        Acup., Chiro                            Acup., Chiro                            Acup., Chiro
                                                                                                                                                                                                          $15 Copay, Ded. Waived Acup/Chiro
 Copay                                     $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                    $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                               20%                         $25 Copay, Ded. Waived              $25 Copay, Ded. Waived Therapeutic            $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $25 Copay, Ded. Waived                  $25 Copay, Ded. Waived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Massage
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Chiropractic unlimited visits
                                             Chiropractic 20 visits                    Chiropractic 20 visits                   Chiropractic 20 visits                  Chiropractic 20 visits                                                            Chiropractic 20 visits                  Chiropractic 20 visits                  Chiropractic 20 visits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Acupuncture 24 visits
 Benefit Maximum                             Acupuncture 12 visits                     Acupuncture 12 visits                    Acupuncture 12 visits                   Acupuncture 12 visits                                                             Acupuncture 12 visits                   Acupuncture 12 visits                   Acupuncture 12 visits
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Therapeutic Massage 18 visits
                                               per benefit year                          per benefit year                         per benefit year                        per benefit year                                                                 per calendar year                       per calendar year                       per calendar year
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    per benefit year
Vision - PacificSource
 Exam                                               $10 Copay                                 $10 Copay                                $10 Copay                               $10 Copay                                 $0 Copay                               $10 Copay                               $10 Copay                               $10 Copay
                                          Under age 19: No Charge                    Under age 19: No Charge                 Under age 19: No Charge                 Under age 19: No Charge                          $120 Frames
 Hardware Allowance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Under age 19: No Charge                 Under age 19: No Charge                 Under age 19: No Charge
                                      Over age 19: No Charge up to $300          Over age 19: No Charge up to $300       Over age 19: No Charge up to $300       Over age 19: No Charge up to $300                   $105 Contacts
Dental - Moda
 Deductible                                         None                                      None                                     None                                    None                                     None                                     None                                    None                                    None
 Preventative                                   Covered in Full                           Covered in Full                          Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                          Covered in Full                          Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                         Covered in Full
 Basic - Restorative                            Covered in Full                           Covered in Full                          Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                          Covered in Full                          Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                         Covered in Full
 Basic - Complicated                            Covered in Full                           Covered in Full                          Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                          Covered in Full                          Covered in Full                         Covered in Full                         Covered in Full
 Major                                              50%                                       50%                                      50%                                     50%                                      50%                                      50%                                     50%                                     50%
 Annual Maximum                                    $2000                                     $2000                                    $2000                                   $1500                                    $1500                                    $1500                                   $1500                                   $1500
 Orthodontia                            50% to $1500 lifetime maximum             50% to $1500 lifetime maximum            50% to $1500 lifetime maximum           50% to $1500 lifetime maximum            50% to $1500 lifetime maximum            50% to $1500 lifetime maximum           50% to $1500 lifetime maximum           50% to $1500 lifetime maximum

                                      Monthly Employee       Annual Employee    Monthly Employee       Annual Employee   Monthly Employee     Annual Employee   Monthly Employee        Annual Employee   Monthly Employee       Annual Employee   Monthly Employee      Annual Employee   Monthly Employee      Annual Employee   Monthly Employee      Annual Employee
                                        Contribution           Contribution       Contribution           Contribution      Contribution         Contribution      Contribution            Contribution      Contribution           Contribution      Contribution          Contribution      Contribution          Contribution      Contribution          Contribution
          Employee Only                    87.38               $1,048.60              75.59               $907.09              72.23              $866.78             72.52                $870.18             75.32                 $903.86            67.70                $812.41            64.11                $769.33            58.03                $696.38
        Employee + Spouse                 189.89               $2,278.62             164.12              $1,969.45            156.78             $1,881.38           157.40               $1,888.81           163.51                $1,962.11          146.88               $1,762.58          139.04               $1,668.46          125.76               $1,509.08
        Employee + Family                 218.46               $2,621.54             189.63              $2,275.56            181.42             $2,177.00           182.11               $2,185.32           189.23                $2,270.80          170.34               $2,044.04          161.56               $1,938.72          146.70               $1,760.36
       Employee + Child(ren)              149.08               $1,788.98             129.39              $1,552.64            123.78             $1,485.32           124.25               $1,491.00           129.24                $1,550.82          116.34               $1,396.04          110.34               $1,324.10          100.19               $1,202.27

                                                               Employer                                  Employer                                Employer                                 Employer                                 Employer                                 Employer                                Employer                                Employer
                                       Total Premium                             Total Premium                            Total Premium                          Total Premium                             Total Premium                            Total Premium                           Total Premium                           Total Premium
                                                              Contribution                              Contribution                            Contribution                             Contribution                             Contribution                             Contribution                            Contribution                            Contribution
          Employee Only                   $873.83               $786.45             $755.91               $680.32            $722.32              $650.09            $725.15               $652.64            $753.22                $677.90           $677.01               $609.31           $641.11               $577.00           $580.32               $522.29
        Employee + Spouse                $1,898.85             $1,708.97           $1,641.21             $1,477.09          $1,567.82            $1,411.04          $1,574.01             $1,416.61          $1,635.09              $1,471.58         $1,468.82             $1,321.94         $1,390.38             $1,251.34         $1,257.57             $1,131.81
        Employee + Family                $2,184.62             $1,966.16           $1,896.30             $1,706.67          $1,814.17            $1,632.75          $1,821.10             $1,638.99          $1,892.33              $1,703.10         $1,703.37             $1,533.03         $1,615.60             $1,454.04         $1,466.97             $1,320.27
       Employee + Child(ren)             $1,490.82             $1,341.74           $1,293.87             $1,164.48          $1,237.77            $1,113.99          $1,242.50             $1,118.25          $1,292.35              $1,163.12         $1,163.37             $1,047.03         $1,103.42              $993.08          $1,001.89              $901.70

                                           This comparison is for illustrative purposes only. If a conflict arises, carrier information takes precedence.       Renewal 1-1-2025 (18 month contract)                                                        Includes a $200,000 Premium Holiday & a 12.9% renewal cap renewal 1-1-25 (18 month contract)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Page 86
                                              Crook County
                                       Deductible & Out-of-Pocket Max

                                       2020                            2021                            2022
          Plan
                          Deductible      Out-of-Pocket   Deductible      Out-of-Pocket   Deductible      Out-of-Pocket

Voyager 1500/3500            35                11            24                11             1                1

Navigator 3000/5000          16                9             10                6             18                13

Voyager 3000/5000             1                1              2                1

Navigator 1500/3500                                                                          16                10

Navigator HSA 2000/4000

Total                        52                21            36                18            35                24




                                                                                                                          Page 87
                                                                Crook County
              $5000 Deductible Reimbursement Analysis - Based on Current Contribution 90/10 Split
                    7/1/2023 - Revised 4-20-23 based on $3500 Per Member Reimbursement

                                                                   Premium
                                                                     PacificSource   Providence Premium   Providence Plus   Providence Choice
                                                                        $5,000         Premium $5000        Plus $5000        Choice $5000
Current Number of Employees                                              199                 199               199                199
Current Premium                                                     $3,405,591.36       $3,405,591.36     $3,405,591.36      $3,405,591.36
Current Employee Cost Share (10%)                                    $340,559.14         $340,559.14       $340,559.14        $340,559.14
Current County Cost Share (90%)                                     $3,065,032.22       $3,065,032.22     $3,065,032.22      $3,065,032.22
$5000 Premium                                                       $3,033,035.52       $2,816,545.68     $2,655,129.12      $2,381,797.08
$5000 Employee Cost Share (10%)                                      $303,303.55         $281,654.57       $265,512.91        $238,179.71
$5000 County Cost Share (90%)                                       $2,729,731.97       $2,534,891.11     $2,389,616.21      $2,143,617.37
County Savings                                                       $335,300.26         $530,141.11       $675,416.02        $921,414.85
                                           Reimbursement of Deductible at $3500 per Member
Maximum Potential deductible based on Current Enrollment                 343                343                343                343
2020 Deductible Met                                                       52                 52                 52                 52
2021 Deductible Met                                                       36                 36                 36                 36
2022 Deductible Met                                                       35                 35                 35                 35
Estimated Number of Deductible to be met on Average                       41                 41                 41                 41
Estimated Deductible Reimbursement @ $3500                           $143,500.00        $143,500.00        $143,500.00        $143,500.00
County Premium Savings minus Reimbursements Est                      $191,800.26        $386,641.11        $531,916.02        $777,914.85
Maximum Deductible Exposure @ $3500                                 $1,200,500.00      $1,200,500.00      $1,200,500.00      $1,200,500.00
County Premium Savings minus Reimbursements Max                     ($865,199.74)      ($670,358.89)      ($525,083.98)      ($279,085.15)
                                                                   HRA Veba
Veba Annual Contribution based on Savings at Estimated Levels         $963.82            $1,942.92          $2,672.94          $3,909.12
Veba Annual Contribution based on Savings at Maximum Levels          ($4,347.74)         ($3,368.64)        ($2,638.61)        ($1,402.44)




                                                                                                                                                Page 88
                                                                                            Crook County
                                                                                           July 1, 2023 Renewal
                                                    $5000 High Deductible Plan with Reimbursement Program - PacificSource Navigator $5000 - Revised 4-20-23

                                                                                             Employee Enrollment
                                                                  Employee Enrollment      Employee + Spouse              Family             Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Enrollment Navigator $1500                                                19                      22                        33                     2                   10                  86
Enrollment Navigator $3000                                                32                      27                        36                     4                    8                  107
Enrollment Navigator HSA $2000                                             4                       1                         0                     1                    0                   6
Maximum Deductible                                                      $5,000                 $10,000                   $10,000                $10,000              $10,000

                                                                                         Premium Cost for Current Plans
Enrollment                                                        Employee Enrollment      Employee + Spouse               Family            Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Plan 1 Premium HSA Plan                                                $823.22                  $1,798.61                $2,012.81              $1,374.87           $1,374.87
Plan 2 Premium $500 PPO                                                $705.30                  $1,540.97                $1,724.49              $1,177.92           $1,177.92
Plan 3 Premium                                                         $671.71                  $1,467.58                $1,642.36              $1,121.82           $1,121.82
Total Premium Monthly                                                 $40,897.62               $82,643.19               $128,504.37             $8,583.24          $23,172.06          $283,800.48
Total Premium Annually                                               $490,771.44              $991,718.28              $1,542,052.44           $102,998.88         $278,064.72        $3,405,605.76

                                                                                   Premium Cost for $5000 Deductible Plan
Enrollment                                                        Employee Enrollment    Employee + Spouse              Family               Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Monthly Premium $5000 Plan                                             $674.54               $1,473.77                 $1,649.29                $1,126.55           $1,126.55
Total Premium Monthly                                                 $37,099.70            $73,688.50               $113,801.01                $7,885.85          $20,277.90          $252,752.96
Total Premium Annually                                               $445,196.40            $884,262.00             $1,365,612.12              $94,630.20          $243,334.80        $3,033,035.52

                                                               Estimate of Deductibles Met with Totals compared to different reimbursement Levels
Reimbursement Plan                                                      $3,500                   $3,000                    $2,500                   $2,000           $1,500              $1,000
Individual Deductible Reimbursement Amount                             $3,500.00                $3,000.00                 $2,500.00                $2,000.00        $1,500.00           $1,000.00
Maximum Deductibles Eligible for Reimbursement                            343                      343                       343                      343              343                 343
Deductibles Met 2020                                                       52                       52                        52                      52               52                  52
Deductibles Met 2021                                                       36                       36                        36                      36               36                  36
Deductibles Met 2022                                                       35                       35                        35                      35               35                  35
Maximum Exposure (Max Ded x reimbursement)                           $1,200,500.00            $1,029,000.00              $857,500.00             $686,000.00       $514,500.00         $343,000.00
2020 Exposure (Ded Met 2020 x reimbursement)                          $182,000.00              $156,000.00               $130,000.00             $104,000.00       $78,000.00          $52,000.00
2021 Exposure (Ded Met 2021 x reimbursement)                          $126,000.00              $108,000.00               $90,000.00               $72,000.00       $54,000.00          $36,000.00
2022 Exposure (Ded Met 2022 x reimbursement)                          $122,500.00              $105,000.00               $87,500.00               $70,000.00       $52,500.00          $35,000.00
Blended Exposure 2021 & 2022 (Average 21 & 22)                        $143,500.00              $123,000.00               $102,500.00              $82,000.00       $61,500.00          $41,000.00

                                                                            Premium + Estimated Reimbursement by different Levels
Reimbursement Plan                                                      $3,500                 $3,000                  $2,500                     $2,000             $1,500              $1,000
Total Premium Annually                                               $3,033,035.52          $3,033,035.52           $3,033,035.52              $3,033,035.52      $3,033,035.52       $3,033,035.52
Maximum Exposure (Max Ded x reimbursement)                           $1,200,500.00          $1,029,000.00            $857,500.00                $686,000.00        $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Blended Exposure 2020, 2021 & 2022 Average                            $143,500.00            $123,000.00             $102,500.00                $82,000.00         $61,500.00          $41,000.00
Premium + Reimbursement Maximum Exposure                             $4,233,535.52          $4,062,035.52           $3,890,535.52              $3,719,035.52      $3,547,535.52       $3,376,035.52
Premium + Reimbursement Blended Exposure                             $3,176,535.52          $3,156,035.52           $3,135,535.52              $3,115,035.52      $3,094,535.52       $3,074,035.52

                                                                      Analysis of Current Plan vs $5000 High Deductible Reimbursement Plan
Reimbursement Plan                                                      $3,500                     $3,000                   $2,500                $2,000              $1,500              $1,000
Current Estimated Premium with Current Plans                         $3,405,605.76             $3,405,605.76            $3,405,605.76         $3,405,605.76       $3,405,605.76       $3,405,605.76
Estimated Premium $5000 Ded Plan                                     $3,033,035.52             $3,033,035.52            $3,033,035.52         $3,033,035.52       $3,033,035.52       $3,033,035.52
Savings                                                               $372,570.24               $372,570.24              $372,570.24           $372,570.24         $372,570.24         $372,570.24
Estimated Reimbursement Based on Blended Exposure                     $143,500.00               $123,000.00              $102,500.00            $82,000.00          $61,500.00          $41,000.00
Savings with Reimbursemnt Base on Blended                            $1,200,500.00             $1,029,000.00             $857,500.00           $686,000.00         $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Estimated Reimbursement Based on Maximum                             $1,200,500.00             $1,029,000.00             $857,500.00           $686,000.00         $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Savings with Reimbursemnt Base on Maximum                            ($827,929.76)              ($656,429.76)            ($484,929.76)        ($313,429.76)       ($141,929.76)         $29,570.24

                                                                                                                                                                                                      Page 89
                                                                                            Crook County
                                                                                           July 1, 2023 Renewal
                                                 $5000 High Deductible Plan with Reimbursement Program - Providence Advantage Premium $5000 - Revised 4-20-23

                                                                                              Employee Enrollment
                                                                  Employee Enrollment       Employee + Spouse              Family             Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Enrollment Navigator $1500                                                19                       22                        33                     2                   10                  86
Enrollment Navigator $3000                                                32                       27                        36                     4                    8                  107
Enrollment Navigator HSA $2000                                             4                        1                         0                     1                    0                   6
Maximum Deductible                                                      $5,000                  $10,000                   $10,000                $10,000              $10,000

                                                                                         Premium Cost for Current Plans
Enrollment                                                        Employee Enrollment      Employee + Spouse               Family             Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Plan 1 Premium HSA Plan                                                $823.22                  $1,798.61                $2,012.81               $1,374.87           $1,374.87
Plan 2 Premium $500 PPO                                                $705.30                  $1,540.97                $1,724.49               $1,177.92           $1,177.92
Plan 3 Premium                                                         $671.71                  $1,467.58                $1,642.36               $1,121.82           $1,121.82
Total Premium Monthly                                                 $40,897.62               $82,643.19               $128,504.37              $8,583.24          $23,172.06          $283,800.48
Total Premium Annually                                               $490,771.44              $991,718.28              $1,542,052.44            $102,998.88         $278,064.72        $3,405,605.76

                                                                                   Premium Cost for $5000 Deductible Plan
Enrollment                                                        Employee Enrollment    Employee + Spouse              Family                Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Monthly Premium $5000 Plan                                             $626.40               $1,368.58                 $1,531.56                 $1,046.10           $1,046.10
Total Premium Monthly                                                 $34,452.00            $68,429.00               $105,677.64                 $7,322.70          $18,829.80          $234,711.14
Total Premium Annually                                               $413,424.00            $821,148.00             $1,268,131.68               $87,872.40          $225,957.60        $2,816,533.68

                                                                Estimate of Deductibles Met with Totals compared to different reimbursement Levels
Reimbursement Plan                                                       $3,500                   $3,000                    $2,500                   $2,000           $1,500              $1,000
Individual Deductible Reimbursement Amount                              $3,500.00                $3,000.00                 $2,500.00                $2,000.00        $1,500.00           $1,000.00
Maximum Deductibles Eligible for Reimbursement                             343                      343                       343                      343              343                 343
Deductibles Met 2020                                                        52                       52                        52                      52               52                  52
Deductibles Met 2021                                                        36                       36                        36                      36               36                  36
Deductibles Met 2022                                                        35                       35                        35                      35               35                  35
Maximum Exposure (Max Ded x reimbursement)                            $1,200,500.00            $1,029,000.00              $857,500.00             $686,000.00       $514,500.00         $343,000.00
2020 Exposure (Ded Met 2020 x reimbursement)                           $182,000.00              $156,000.00               $130,000.00             $104,000.00       $78,000.00          $52,000.00
2021 Exposure (Ded Met 2021 x reimbursement)                           $126,000.00              $108,000.00               $90,000.00               $72,000.00       $54,000.00          $36,000.00
2022 Exposure (Ded Met 2022 x reimbursement)                           $122,500.00              $105,000.00               $87,500.00               $70,000.00       $52,500.00          $35,000.00
Blended Exposure 2021 & 2022 (Average 21 & 22)                         $143,500.00              $123,000.00               $102,500.00              $82,000.00       $61,500.00          $41,000.00

                                                                             Premium + Estimated Reimbursement by different Levels
Reimbursement Plan                                                       $3,500                 $3,000                  $2,500                     $2,000             $1,500              $1,000
Total Premium Annually                                                $2,816,533.68          $2,816,533.68           $2,816,533.68              $2,816,533.68      $2,816,533.68       $2,816,533.68
Maximum Exposure (Max Ded x reimbursement)                            $1,200,500.00          $1,029,000.00            $857,500.00                $686,000.00        $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Blended Exposure 2020, 2021 & 2022 Average                             $143,500.00            $123,000.00             $102,500.00                $82,000.00         $61,500.00          $41,000.00
Premium + Reimbursement Maximum Exposure                              $4,017,033.68          $3,845,533.68           $3,674,033.68              $3,502,533.68      $3,331,033.68       $3,159,533.68
Premium + Reimbursement Blended Exposure                              $2,960,033.68          $2,939,533.68           $2,919,033.68              $2,898,533.68      $2,878,033.68       $2,857,533.68

                                                                      Analysis of Current Plan vs $5000 High Deductible Reimbursement Plan
Reimbursement Plan                                                      $3,500                     $3,000                   $2,500                 $2,000              $1,500              $1,000
Current Estimated Premium with Current Plans                         $3,405,605.76             $3,405,605.76            $3,405,605.76          $3,405,605.76       $3,405,605.76       $3,405,605.76
Estimated Premium $5000 Ded Plan                                     $2,816,533.68             $2,816,533.68            $2,816,533.68          $2,816,533.68       $2,816,533.68       $2,816,533.68
Savings                                                               $589,072.08               $589,072.08              $589,072.08            $589,072.08         $589,072.08         $589,072.08
Estimated Reimbursement Based on Blended Exposure                     $143,500.00               $123,000.00              $102,500.00             $82,000.00          $61,500.00          $41,000.00
Savings with Reimbursemnt Base on Blended                            $1,200,500.00             $1,029,000.00             $857,500.00            $686,000.00         $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Estimated Reimbursement Based on Maximum                             $1,200,500.00             $1,029,000.00             $857,500.00            $686,000.00         $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Savings with Reimbursemnt Base on Maximum                            ($611,427.92)              ($439,927.92)            ($268,427.92)          ($96,927.92)         $74,572.08         $246,072.08

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Page 90
                                                                                     Crook County
                                                                                    July 1, 2023 Renewal
                                                    $5000 High Deductible Plan with Reimbursement Program - Providence Advantage Plus $5000

                                                                                      Employee Enrollment
                                                           Employee Enrollment      Employee + Spouse              Family             Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Enrollment Navigator $1500                                         19                      22                        33                     2                   10                  86
Enrollment Navigator $3000                                         32                      27                        36                     4                    8                  107
Enrollment Navigator HSA $2000                                      4                       1                         0                     1                    0                   6
Maximum Deductible                                               $5,000                 $10,000                   $10,000                $10,000              $10,000

                                                                                  Premium Cost for Current Plans
Enrollment                                                 Employee Enrollment      Employee + Spouse               Family            Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Plan 1 Premium HSA Plan                                         $823.22                  $1,798.61                $2,012.81              $1,374.87           $1,374.87
Plan 2 Premium $500 PPO                                         $705.30                  $1,540.97                $1,724.49              $1,177.92           $1,177.92
Plan 3 Premium                                                  $671.71                  $1,467.58                $1,642.36              $1,121.82           $1,121.82
Total Premium Monthly                                          $40,897.62               $82,643.19               $128,504.37             $8,583.24          $23,172.06          $283,800.48
Total Premium Annually                                        $490,771.44              $991,718.28              $1,542,052.44           $102,998.88         $278,064.72        $3,405,605.76

                                                                            Premium Cost for $5000 Deductible Plan
Enrollment                                                 Employee Enrollment    Employee + Spouse              Family               Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Monthly Premium $5000 Plan                                      $590.50               $1,290.14                 $1,443.79                 $986.19             $986.19
Total Premium Monthly                                          $32,477.50            $64,507.00                $99,621.51                $6,903.33          $17,751.42          $221,260.76
Total Premium Annually                                        $389,730.00            $774,084.00             $1,195,458.12              $82,839.96          $213,017.04        $2,655,129.12

                                                        Estimate of Deductibles Met with Totals compared to different reimbursement Levels
Reimbursement Plan                                               $3,500                   $3,000                    $2,500                   $2,000           $1,500              $1,000
Individual Deductible Reimbursement Amount                      $3,500.00                $3,000.00                 $2,500.00                $2,000.00        $1,500.00           $1,000.00
Maximum Deductibles Eligible for Reimbursement                     343                      343                       343                      343              343                 343
Deductibles Met 2020                                                52                       52                        52                      52               52                  52
Deductibles Met 2021                                                36                       36                        36                      36               36                  36
Deductibles Met 2022                                                35                       35                        35                      35               35                  35
Maximum Exposure (Max Ded x reimbursement)                    $1,200,500.00            $1,029,000.00              $857,500.00             $686,000.00       $514,500.00         $343,000.00
2020 Exposure (Ded Met 2020 x reimbursement)                   $182,000.00              $156,000.00               $130,000.00             $104,000.00       $78,000.00          $52,000.00
2021 Exposure (Ded Met 2021 x reimbursement)                   $126,000.00              $108,000.00               $90,000.00               $72,000.00       $54,000.00          $36,000.00
2022 Exposure (Ded Met 2022 x reimbursement)                   $122,500.00              $105,000.00               $87,500.00               $70,000.00       $52,500.00          $35,000.00
Blended Exposure 2021 & 2022 (Average 21 & 22)                 $143,500.00              $123,000.00               $102,500.00              $82,000.00       $61,500.00          $41,000.00

                                                                     Premium + Estimated Reimbursement by different Levels
Reimbursement Plan                                               $3,500                 $3,000                  $2,500                     $2,000             $1,500              $1,000
Total Premium Annually                                        $2,655,129.12          $2,655,129.12           $2,655,129.12              $2,655,129.12      $2,655,129.12       $2,655,129.12
Maximum Exposure (Max Ded x reimbursement)                    $1,200,500.00          $1,029,000.00            $857,500.00                $686,000.00        $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Blended Exposure 2020, 2021 & 2022 Average                     $143,500.00            $123,000.00             $102,500.00                $82,000.00         $61,500.00          $41,000.00
Premium + Reimbursement Maximum Exposure                      $3,855,629.12          $3,684,129.12           $3,512,629.12              $3,341,129.12      $3,169,629.12       $2,998,129.12
Premium + Reimbursement Blended Exposure                      $2,798,629.12          $2,778,129.12           $2,757,629.12              $2,737,129.12      $2,716,629.12       $2,696,129.12

                                                               Analysis of Current Plan vs $5000 High Deductible Reimbursement Plan
Reimbursement Plan                                               $3,500                     $3,000                   $2,500                $2,000              $1,500              $1,000
Current Estimated Premium with Current Plans                  $3,405,605.76             $3,405,605.76            $3,405,605.76         $3,405,605.76       $3,405,605.76       $3,405,605.76
Estimated Premium $5000 Ded Plan                              $2,655,129.12             $2,655,129.12            $2,655,129.12         $2,655,129.12       $2,655,129.12       $2,655,129.12
Savings                                                        $750,476.64               $750,476.64              $750,476.64           $750,476.64         $750,476.64         $750,476.64
Estimated Reimbursement Based on Blended Exposure              $143,500.00               $123,000.00              $102,500.00            $82,000.00          $61,500.00          $41,000.00
Savings with Reimbursemnt Base on Blended                     $1,200,500.00             $1,029,000.00             $857,500.00           $686,000.00         $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Estimated Reimbursement Based on Maximum                      $1,200,500.00             $1,029,000.00             $857,500.00           $686,000.00         $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Savings with Reimbursemnt Base on Maximum                     ($450,023.36)              ($278,523.36)            ($107,023.36)          $64,476.64         $235,976.64         $407,476.64

                                                                                                                                                                                               Page 91
                                                                                      Crook County
                                                                                     July 1, 2023 Renewal
                                                    $5000 High Deductible Plan with Reimbursement Program - Providence Advantage Choice $5000

                                                                                        Employee Enrollment
                                                            Employee Enrollment       Employee + Spouse              Family             Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Enrollment Navigator $1500                                          19                       22                        33                     2                   10                  86
Enrollment Navigator $3000                                          32                       27                        36                     4                    8                  107
Enrollment Navigator HSA $2000                                       4                        1                         0                     1                    0                   6
Maximum Deductible                                                $5,000                  $10,000                   $10,000                $10,000              $10,000

                                                                                   Premium Cost for Current Plans
Enrollment                                                  Employee Enrollment      Employee + Spouse               Family             Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Plan 1 Premium HSA Plan                                          $823.22                  $1,798.61                $2,012.81               $1,374.87           $1,374.87
Plan 2 Premium $500 PPO                                          $705.30                  $1,540.97                $1,724.49               $1,177.92           $1,177.92
Plan 3 Premium                                                   $671.71                  $1,467.58                $1,642.36               $1,121.82           $1,121.82
Total Premium Monthly                                           $40,897.62               $82,643.19               $128,504.37              $8,583.24          $23,172.06          $283,800.48
Total Premium Annually                                         $490,771.44              $991,718.28              $1,542,052.44            $102,998.88         $278,064.72        $3,405,605.76

                                                                             Premium Cost for $5000 Deductible Plan
Enrollment                                                  Employee Enrollment    Employee + Spouse              Family                Employee + Child   Employee + Children       Total
Monthly Premium $5000 Plan                                       $529.71               $1,157.33                 $1,295.16                  $884.66             $884.66
Total Premium Monthly                                           $29,134.05            $57,866.50                $89,366.04                 $6,192.62          $15,923.88          $198,483.09
Total Premium Annually                                         $349,608.60            $694,398.00             $1,072,392.48               $74,311.44          $191,086.56        $2,381,797.08

                                                          Estimate of Deductibles Met with Totals compared to different reimbursement Levels
Reimbursement Plan                                                 $3,500                   $3,000                    $2,500                   $2,000           $1,500              $1,000
Individual Deductible Reimbursement Amount                        $3,500.00                $3,000.00                 $2,500.00                $2,000.00        $1,500.00           $1,000.00
Maximum Deductibles Eligible for Reimbursement                       343                      343                       343                      343              343                 343
Deductibles Met 2020                                                  52                       52                        52                      52               52                  52
Deductibles Met 2021                                                  36                       36                        36                      36               36                  36
Deductibles Met 2022                                                  35                       35                        35                      35               35                  35
Maximum Exposure (Max Ded x reimbursement)                      $1,200,500.00            $1,029,000.00              $857,500.00             $686,000.00       $514,500.00         $343,000.00
2020 Exposure (Ded Met 2020 x reimbursement)                     $182,000.00              $156,000.00               $130,000.00             $104,000.00       $78,000.00          $52,000.00
2021 Exposure (Ded Met 2021 x reimbursement)                     $126,000.00              $108,000.00               $90,000.00               $72,000.00       $54,000.00          $36,000.00
2022 Exposure (Ded Met 2022 x reimbursement)                     $122,500.00              $105,000.00               $87,500.00               $70,000.00       $52,500.00          $35,000.00
Blended Exposure 2021 & 2022 (Average 21 & 22)                   $143,500.00              $123,000.00               $102,500.00              $82,000.00       $61,500.00          $41,000.00

                                                                      Premium + Estimated Reimbursement by different Levels
Reimbursement Plan                                                $3,500                 $3,000                  $2,500                      $2,000             $1,500              $1,000
Total Premium Annually                                         $2,381,797.08          $2,381,797.08           $2,381,797.08               $2,381,797.08      $2,381,797.08       $2,381,797.08
Maximum Exposure (Max Ded x reimbursement)                     $1,200,500.00          $1,029,000.00            $857,500.00                 $686,000.00        $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Blended Exposure 2020, 2021 & 2022 Average                      $143,500.00            $123,000.00             $102,500.00                 $82,000.00         $61,500.00          $41,000.00
Premium + Reimbursement Maximum Exposure                       $3,582,297.08          $3,410,797.08           $3,239,297.08               $3,067,797.08      $2,896,297.08       $2,724,797.08
Premium + Reimbursement Blended Exposure                       $2,525,297.08          $2,504,797.08           $2,484,297.08               $2,463,797.08      $2,443,297.08       $2,422,797.08

                                                                Analysis of Current Plan vs $5000 High Deductible Reimbursement Plan
Reimbursement Plan                                                $3,500                     $3,000                  $2,500                  $2,000              $1,500              $1,000
Current Estimated Premium with Current Plans                   $3,405,605.76             $3,405,605.76            $3,405,605.76          $3,405,605.76       $3,405,605.76       $3,405,605.76
Estimated Premium $5000 Ded Plan                               $2,381,797.08             $2,381,797.08            $2,381,797.08          $2,381,797.08       $2,381,797.08       $2,381,797.08
Savings                                                        $1,023,808.68             $1,023,808.68            $1,023,808.68          $1,023,808.68       $1,023,808.68       $1,023,808.68
Estimated Reimbursement Based on Blended Exposure               $143,500.00               $123,000.00              $102,500.00             $82,000.00          $61,500.00          $41,000.00
Savings with Reimbursemnt Base on Blended                      $1,200,500.00             $1,029,000.00             $857,500.00            $686,000.00         $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Estimated Reimbursement Based on Maximum                       $1,200,500.00             $1,029,000.00             $857,500.00            $686,000.00         $514,500.00         $343,000.00
Savings with Reimbursemnt Base on Maximum                      ($176,691.32)               ($5,191.32)             $166,308.68            $337,808.68         $509,308.68         $680,808.68

                                                                                                                                                                                                 Page 92
                                          Crook County
                                    Mailing: 300 NE 3rd Street     Prineville, Oregon 97754
                                    Physical: 203 NE Court Street  Prineville, Oregon 97754
                                                   Phone (541) 447-6555


May 3, 2023

U.S. Department of Justice
Office of Community Oriented Policing Services
145 N Street NE
Washington, DC 20530


To Whom It May Concern,

      I am writing this letter to indicate my support for the Crook County School District’s
School Violence Prevention Program grant application. The safety and security of the students
and faculty in the Crook County School district is of the utmost importance.

        As a Judge representing the County, I am aware of the funding challenges many school
districts have regarding large capital projects for school safety. Indeed, this is an important
issue to address, and my office intends to provide our fullest support for this application in the
hopes that Crook County School District can be an example for other school districts in our
Central Oregon region.

       Furthermore, we can appreciate that the impacts of safety in our schools reach the
greater community through parents and others, altogether creating a more stable and
wholesome environment. Therefore, we support the district’s mission to install up-to-date
equipment and technology as a crucial component of any school’s safety and security efforts.

       Crook County School District and Director of Technology, Eric Ryan have our fullest
support to apply for these funds to improve safety capabilities amongst staff, faculty, first
responders, and law enforcement. With the funds provided through this grant program, we
feel that Crook County School District will be able to achieve its safety goals.

I personally look forward to collaborating on this initiative.


Sincerely,




 X
 Seth Crawford
 County Judge



                                                                                                Page 93
